The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
The manitous coming are continuously flashing lightning
He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
He drove across the high bridge.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
The boy worked around the neighborhood.
I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
Please clear off the platform for my son-in-law to set down the deer he's bring in on his back.
He's working on the deer he shot.
He's looking for the deer he wounded.
It wiggles up and down as it moves around.
Don't run with your gun.
That old cat has got a mouse in her mouth.
The car screeches going by on the road.
I drank some pop.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Lay the yardstick here.
It looks like this one got shiny-faced. Are you drinking?
Pull the window open.
I brought one gallon of gas.
About four-thirty in the morning it starts to get light.
It's getting dark but it is still light in the living room.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
When they crossed the stream, they waded through the water.
He put the board across the crack in the ice -- that's how he got across.
Mix the oil into the gas.
He is operating the sawmill.
Where is the voting going to take place? | I think it's in the main building.
The ice comes up on shore when it drifts around in the spring.
Let's eat across from the doorway,
Rabbits chewed the sticks bare. We'll set our snares here.
There is a draft here.
He changed the position of the hide. He turned it over on its back.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
The lightning hit the ground.
Always keep your gas can full.
That car I bought has a lot of problems.
I'm so sick I'm just hurting.
He went to the chicken coop to gather up the eggs.
He turned around the glass pane they had set.
The torchers were gone all night.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
We'll go shining later because it's too early in the night.
He is also spit-shining his shoes.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
She tried waving his arms at the driver to stop him.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
The robin is the spirit bird that gave (my grandmother) my name.
Where is he toting it (on his back).
He couldn't see him when he wanted him to go after water.
It's pretty still outside. There's no wind blowing.
He was nominated to sit on the tribal council.
They selected my grandaughter to be the princess at the last pow-wow.
He has whiskers. {Literally: He has a mouse sticking out of his mouth.]
A redheaded woodpecker gets its food from a tree. That's why it makes holes in the tree.
I just swept up any old way.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
There's somebody shooting on the other side of the rapids.
How are quills used? / Quills are used when something is decorating with embroidery, maybe a small birch bark box.
The paddler accidentally hit the reef right on.
It won't fit because it's too short.
Put the tobacco in the pipe.
The boys are done skinning the deer.
She doesn't let her children be out at night.
He chased that animal into a corner.
If you keep pulling a hide to dry it, it will get softer.
I didn't like the taste of the beets they fed me.
Last summer we planted potatoes.
That girl did it to herself and that's why her arm is in sling.
The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
Last night two men capsized (their motor boat). One nearly drowned.
He was trying to find the billfold he dropped in the darkened garage.
The Thunderbirds come from the west as they go by us.
The old man brags a lot about that old cur.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
The rice must be ripe now.
How much does that cow cost?
Don't bother him. He's busy working on a car. You'll distract him.
The person who made my vest made a mistake. She sewed it up so it's puckered.
He's watching that guy and trying to copy him but he still made that mistake.
His dog finally took after him, the one who's always teasing him.
Bizhikiins is late all the time.
He teaches his grandchild all the time.
I'm going to eat bannock.
The thing you're looking for is sticking out of the snow.
He really like that song and that's why he taped it.
Fill that burlap sack halfway.
We poured the sugar water into the tank when we gathered the sap in the evening.
Let's go take the net out.
We'll pull out our net as early as dawn.
His voice is not strong enough for me to understand him.
Whatever dialect you learn or however you learn to speak Ojibwe, the creator will always understand you, no matter how you sound.
Whatever that is he's talking about, I don't understand him.
He sounded hoarse when I called him this morning. I could barely understand him.
He hiked over there, the hiker, the one who hiked the cut.
They met their mother halfway when she was released from the hospital.
He gave away that nice hat I bought for him.
Don't get friendly with the bear. He's too dangerous.
That dog's hair stood up as he barked at the bear.
They spotted a bear in the light when they cast a light in that direction.
The den where a bear sleeps is hollow.
I thought what he told me was amazing.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
The whiteman thinks it's easy to dance at a powwow.
He really didn't come.
He didn't even dream about the thunder and lightning because he was sleeping too deeply.
That's where he had his sugar camp -- in the wilderness.
The person who is always roaming around finally arrived.
These Indian hockey players come from all over.
The old bachelor has a dirty house. He doesn't know how to keep it clean.
Remember your sister-in-law is going to have a birthday.
Work with that man working over there.
He's working with that man.
Who is going to work with you when you guys build your house.
I met my grandfather halfway down the lake.
We were away a long time when we went to the city.
Where the hell did you put it?
He sleeps with his wallet. He's afraid someone's going to steal it from him.
If you catch a flying squirrel in the trap, throw it back in the box as your bait.
Can you come later? I'm going to cut some wood first.
He's burning the brush out on the point where's he's going to plant his garden later.
The one paddling here is going against the wind. It will be some time before he gets here.
He spun the top.
When its raining you can hear the nice sound of the rain falling.
How long is the lake?
His tooth is bothering him.
He listens to his father's teachings. / He minds his father's teachings.
If it's overcast in the summer, there's always a bunch of mosquitos.
Everyone thinks he is never going to finish his house because he is too lazy.
Ring the bell.
At nine o'clock he's going to ring the bell.
If s/he rings my phone, I'm going to ask h/ if I can work for h/.
Come here, my grandmother said to me.
There's a black cloud coming up from the west.
Look back at the one who's coming, how she's dressed.
What are they playing? / I think they are playing the moccasin game.
There's a leak in the middle of the tent.
Would you please go get me a cup of tea to drink.
The water in the lake is polluted. Don't drink it.
You can see a little boat running along way out in the lake.
The one who just came ashore is gasping for breath. He swam from way out in the lake.
I saw the guy that owes me money coming this way, but he quickly hid behind something.
This morning he gave a spirit name to his namesake.
It was the new moon of January the other night.
I heard that he come out of the hospital two nights ago.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
They're telling us it's our turn to talk.
A wood tick bit him in the middle of the chest.
When that man was walking he fell down.
He tracked his father toward the west.
Take him in that direction.
You should hang it this way so it will be visible.
How are they related?
Wah, the liquor they gave me to drink is very strong.
I hear him moving around in the other room. I don't know what he's doing.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
I locked my car when I got home.
Go lock up the cow barn.
Did  you lock the car?
Lock your car if you're going to spend the night in the city.
Lock the gate on your driveway you just came out of.
She dunked her cookie to soften it.
Please take me to the hospital. I'm going to go see the doctor. I'm sick.
He didn't know what to think when they came and told him his grandmother was very ill.
I was sick and it just hurt.
I think my brother is giving up. He isn't able to eat anymore because his is so very sick.
Dry your socks near the stove.
That's where the path goes, by the river.
The town is by the lake.
There's a bed next to the wall.
She stopped her horse before they got on the ice.
How is that road?
The roads are bad.
Set your trap for a beaver on its trail.
They went around marking the trees they were going to cut down.
Go take the sheets down (off the line).
Make a lunch for me to take along.
He came out carrying his little son on his back in a cradle board.
He didn't feel good; that's why he went for treatment.
I have money in my wallet
He didn't know his road --  that's why he got lost.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
I didn't know what to do, so I tried it.
A cat is sleeping on the bed.
Was it still daylight when he got ready for bed?
I saw a teenagers smoking in the alley.
That young man broke his leg because he fell off the horse.
I used to be the one to scrub the floor when our floor was dirty.
Don't touch that bug.
That man didn't hear me. I think he's deaf.
I heard someone yelling at daybreak.
Hear h/ out. / Try to understand what h/ is saying.
Was what I said heard? = Did you understand me?
He laced that linament [watering it to make it drinkable] so that's why he's half-shot.
Please find your grandfather's glasses.
Don't bother your grandfather. He's busy making kinnickinick
He divorced his wife.
If you see bowlegged tracks of something, they're porcupine tracks.
I couldn't reach that thread because they put it up too high for me.
My grandmother was put in a retirement home because she isn't able to take care of herself.
My grandfather surprised me when he came around the corner.
I hide my money underground.
I cooked three times today.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
She was born in the winter.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
How far along in the winter is it?
He sings that song different than the way we sing it.
He was hired to drive so that's why he's driving around.
That boy's teeth are chattering he's so cold.
Come and put that yardstick against the wall. I want to find out how high it is.
He's indicating that the wind is from the north.
All evening he's holding a light for the guy who's working on his car.
He did a good thing when he deposited his money into the bank.
Don't put your it here on on the top of the roof. Your cup might get blown down.
I'm eating some candies.
How long are his arms?
Go tell him to hurry up.
Where is she running to?
Go swing that baby you hear crying.
I kicked the dog coming to try to bite me.
That statue you're making, make it good.
She makes the bread the same way I do it.
He thinks it's kind of easy for him to get that big buck I saw out in the woods
Thaw it first to make apple juice (from frozen concentrate).
The meat is frozen solid. I'll put it in the water first to thaw it before I cook it.
He sings that song different from the way he heard it.
His fishing pole fell in because it slipped out of his hands.
She's  making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
Put your blueberries in the shade before they burst open from the sun.
I dropped the cup and it broke.
She  made the doll she made for her little daughter small.
Where is he whacking it to?
He hit his (golf)ball right out on a field of snow
Pull out your knife.
He pulled out the shell that was jammed in the chamber.
She chased the disorderly child outside.
Her son got on board, but she told him to get off.
That bottle is half full with wine.
The jars are boiling.  [to use in canning]
In a hot country, there was only snow on top of the mountains.
I dug worms after it rained.
The canoe that blew ashore came from the point
Cold winds blow from the north.
He isn't able to get aboard the motorboat because its sides are too high.
Taste that sturgeon.
That table is dirty. Can you clean it?
I'm cleaning the rice I brought up. I pick out the broken stalk tips.
I hunted for night crawlers late at night when there was dew.
It is a short song.
He composed that song by himself.
It cost him a lot to fix his boat.
I want to fix my little car.
I wish you would come and fix my platform.
On Wednesday I set up the tent.
Long ago this is what they did first when they erected the bark hut.
The radiator froze and that's why the engine in my car overheated.
The tea was real good. He brewed it really well.
Steam your veggies to eat them.
The boy wiped the snot off his nose.
I think they're going to buy us lunch tomorrow.
There's ample distribution.
How do you regard the chairman? I don't know...it's too early to tell.
He jumped out of the rice boat too soon and that's why it tipped over.
The one pushing the logs down the rapids fell off.
The sleeper is whimpering and sobbing. I think he's having a bad dream.
The soaring eagle cast a sudden shadow where I was standing.
Where is s/he dragging h/?
It was a strong statement that was written by the governor.
The newsletter told the happy news about the upcoming powwow.
How fast is it going?
Is that how fast it's going?
That kind doesn't bite.
She's warming up soup for her grandfather.
Open those cans.
He's rushing downstairs to go answer his ringing phone.
I'll untangle that rope. I think the tug of war contestants are going to use it.
My grandson almost killed our cat.
Let's eat some bannock with it.
That man is unable to work.
I want to work in the sawmill this winter.
Move that. Move it further away.
Where is he taking it?
Carry it upstairs.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
I bought a fast motor to use to go berry-picking this summer.
Are you guys able to build an addition? | Yup,  we know how to do it.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
Take it easy. The road is very slippery.
Rub your dog's belly. Check it for bugs.
Even if you only pay a little bit each time for your car, some day you will pay it off.
I chewed on some real strong bitterroot.
The puppies almost froze to death, so I brought them in.
They took the names of the people that are going to be working on the house that is going to be built.
Cars no longer have to be cranked. They used to be long ago.
The last person I worked for was a very good person, a good boss.
We went to the dance Sunday and that's where we camped.
Use balsams for your bedding when you make your wigwam.
How long is the ribbon that you clip on?
Flip those pancakes.
Look into  the pot.
The representatives already decided what they were going to do.
Have you decided how you are going to vote.
He got a real intense pain when he fell yesterday.
It was a bad day yesterday and that's why I didn't go out in the woods.
Yesterday I smoked a lot of meat. Today I'll make pemmican.
When the boughs are dry, we'll go get them; they're too wet now.
Where I come from they always speak the Native language.
Where is he wading to?
She's taking her net down to the lake to set it.
She would have been almost run over if it hadn't been for me pushing her out of the way.
He pushed the little boy out of the way before he got hit.
He carefully shaped the clay.
She worked the clay she wanted to use to soften it.
I only talked with him for a little while before he got on the bus.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
He dropped his bustle off his back.
The bustle was ripped apart in the wind.
My bustle is hanging open.
The runner had a bad cramp in his leg and that's why it's sore.
The old lady went and hocked my rifle because she wanted to play bingo.
Those mushrooms (in the rice) are wet.
You should often visit the elders. You will learn something there about leading a good life.
My daughter wears glasses when she drives. She doesn't see very well.
I want to wear my jacket but he's got it on.
Put on your rubber boots. The grass outside is wet.
He soaked his hat before he put it on because he was sweating a lot.
He made a mistake when he tore a piece off the roof.
Where's he driving to?
I'm driving to my grandmother's house.
There are two dogs in the team the one that goes shopping drives.
The old dipper has got a hole in it; that's why it leaks.
There's no way I'd vote for that thief.
We sit together when we work on Ojibwe words.
How far along is he with the work on the house? Is he putting the roof on it yet?
The berry pickers paddled out of the river this morning.
The trapper, done with trapping, is portaging all his stuff. He's going to paddle to the mouth to go home.
What's it like? (of cloth or paper)
Look at this child standing there. He's just filthy dirty.
Drag the beaver you trapped home.
Tell that boy to go home.
He's going to pound on his drum and sing the day after tomorrow.
The thing you are looking for is over there on the ground.
Don't take out all the money if you go to the bank. Leave me some!
She (or he) is approaching the status of an elder now.
The deer and the moose lose their antlers past midwinter.
The person going after water only took one pail.
The moon is really bright even though it's a half-moon.
When the women help with the singing they do what is called zhaabowe.
He cleaned his pipe for him.
The baseball team overwhelmed the challengers who came to play with them.
Just go ahead. We'll catch up to you anyway.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
I'm going to go after ten pounds of sugar.
Bring me two feet of that black ribbon.
Hand me that black thread.
He pretended to sleep during the thunder.
The children are chasing each other around playing tag.
Come on let's eat.
Come on, let's go dance.
Come over here
Let's go into the woods.
It's late. We should go lie down.
Come on, let's go to town.
That food that's been there for a while got moldy.
Load your gun. | I loaded it already.
He brought an empty pail
She brought a new car.
Leave it alone. Don't bother it.
Stick the meat on the spit.
The leaves fall off the trees that have them towards late fall.
She greased up the pan to fry something.
Select very carefully what you want to take.
Which moccasins did you choose?
I add salt when I eat.
He tried to break the string but he couldn't do it.
He is unable to pull the rope. Maybe it's frozen to the ground.
The boy looks just like his dad.
The cars looked the same.
He's following in the same footsteps as what he's tracking.
It looks the same (as another thing).
How much does the buck you shot weigh? | It weighs almost three hundred pounds.
How does it smell?
How many pairs/sets/dozens are there of them?
Look at what they gave me at the language table last night.
(The drink) coffee is brown.
He's going to move further away tomorrow.
He did it right when he doled out the cups.
They're doing wrong bossing around the people doing the work.
Fill your pipe.
What's it called in English?
You don't have to ask me where we are going to go eat. It's up to you!
She gets him to run inside before his feet get cold.
I told him to get his head out of the way because he was sitting blocking the view.
She makes the bread the same way I do it.
I did it any old way.
Policy has been set for us to follow in the government.
Sure I'll go with you.
Those clothes smell musty because they've been sitting there for a long time.
Point out to her where she should sit.
Bend the sticks of the frame before making the waaginogaan.
He cried for his grandmother who just went out.
If the snow is all melted on the muskeg, we'll find some cranberries.
It's almost full (of liquid).
He was going to say something but because of his brother-in-law being there he just stopped.
Sharpen your pencil.
A little while ago that water was nice and clear and now it's all dirtied up.
Carry your canoe on top of your car.
My parents are going upriver to their trapping area for the winter.
Don't go there. It's dangerous there where there's a bare cable.
Put it in your pocket.
Those are my offerings.
They are completing the medicine lodge.
Put a board under your pot so your tablecloth doesn't get burned.
It's time for our breakfast.
At seven o'clock that old man had his breakfast.
After the milk thaws out, we'll have breakfast.
Fill up my car halfway.
You can hear him along the shore chopping and shaping paddles.
She's tickling her little boy.
The pouch was too small -- that's why he enlarged it.
He spread out his pants on top of a rock to dry them.
How is s/he dressed?
Someone was occupying the bathroom. I waited for h/ to finish.
The representative backed up when he saw how difficult that resolution was.
Where are the clouds coming from?
Those young people are used to staying up all night.
He knows how to make drums because he copied his father.
Salt the chicken.
I'm going to rest this summer.
When someone makes an offering it's usually a blanket and tobacco.
I like when they sing that flirting song.
They hear the one who mowed the lawn yesterday moaning and groaning so he must be sore and aching today.
Wiggle your fingers.
Kick your shoes under the bed.
He has no idea where he dropped his wallet.
When he put the tire on, he put it on too loose.
He didn't sleep much last night so that's why he couldn't go on with what he was doing.
It was hot last night night. I lay there without covers all night.
Someone was heard crying last night. They sounded so small, like a child.
The house at the end of the road is where the guy you are asking for is living by himself.
Can you sew up those pants?
My pants are big.
She's patching my pants.
He stands at the end of the dock when he's fishing.
Pull your dock out of the water before it freezes up.
He was overwhelmed by what he was told.
The deer drivers are calling for each other.
That young man is built solid; that's why he is so powerful.
Let's make moose of clay to see who does it best.
When the bell rang, the wrestlers grappled with each other.
That lady didn't come yet.
You should find a place for him to sleep.
You should try to find the car of his that he lost. The police are trying to find it too.
The elderly lady who sews can still see clearly.
He's putting medicine on the knee he skinned.
Let's walk a little faster. We'll miss the train.
The one shooting the rapids goes down in the middle.
There's a rough ruffles in the middle of the rapids. I guess there's rocks under them. Let's go down on the edge.
He went over and stayed with his friend -- that's why he was gone all night.
It will be pretty dry this summer.
A snowshoe hare is white in the winter, brown in the summer.
I'm going to take the car and go pick up my lunch.
He hit him in the head when he missed the ball. I think he knocked him unconscious.
She pulled that hide out of the water after she got it soft.
He's foreman on that project where they're tarring the road.
Knead your bannock before you put it in the oven and cook it.
Don't knead your dough too long. It will harden up.
The doctor hurt me when he was pressing on my sore.
They all work together. Ants are certainly very strong.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
The motor boat stopped.
We pushed the car when it couldn't start.
She lent him money even though she didn't want to.
I went to work even though I was sore all over.
I went anyway.
I'm sitting with the ladies near the lake shore.
Let's work together revitalizing our language.
She braids her little daughter's hair nicely for school.
Put the tobacco down. [pointing to a place]
She put a stone in her mouth. [of a child]
When are you going to go after that tent that you loaned out?
Beavers have dark brown fur and sometimes white fur.
Come on, let's go to the casino. | It's up to you.
Well, they think he's in the casino.
I'm going to borrow your car tomorrow.
Stand on the chair!
He invited that old man to come and speak.
Can you make that sign that I want to use?
I hang the kettle close to the fire when I make soup.
Try and make the syrup you're making good.
Make your moccasins before the powwow season starts.
We helped translate the words too.
How strong is the wind?
How wide is it? (something animate)
Please cook the rabbit.
Please cook the rabbit for him.
Every time he moved he let off a stink.
He's hoeing his corn in the garden.
While he was hoeing his garden he remembered he'd put some meat on to boil.
If you leave your hat hanging outside for a long time, the color will fade.
That's the right way it is sewn.
Is she honest enough to be trusted?
Wash your hands before you eat. They're dirty.
Wash your hands first before you pick up the meat or you might get it dirty.
The (hockey) player scores.
Set your tea off the fire before it gets strong.
Write this in Ojibwe.
The chief called a meeting to find out about what is ahead for us.
Pretty soon we'll see July again.
How full is your water pail?
He dropped his bow when he jumped out of the way of the falling tree.
Set up your trap in the middle of the overflow.
The guy that's roofing will be climbing down pretty soon. Go set the table.
He shredded the document.
The mosquito crawled in his ear.
The fish is done (cooking).
Watch it from here.
They came out laughing after they watched the movie.
Put your bannock on top of the table.
Don't worry about him. He's making his way over here. He'll be here in time.
I'm waiting for my grandson. He didn't come.
The train has arrived.
Before we take that hay out of here, you'd better tie it down good.
You can hear the hay field crackling as it burns.
He mowed his father's grass.
He cut open the sack that was tied into in knots in order to open it.
Please turn on the air conditioner because it is hot here inside before grandma gets dizzy from the heat.
That battery did fit into the tight place.
He and his brother traded cars.
He ran out of oil so that's why he stopped the engine.
Work the rice with your feet to dehusk it.
He found signs that his dog must have been eating there. There were marks.
They're running around holding on to each other.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
We went with our mother blueberry picking and I picked the biggest ones.
I've been going around picking berries all summer.
I hurt my knee so that's why I'm limping.
He rubs his knee where he got hurt.
Use a dish towel when you're going to dry your dishes.
I parched the raw rice this morning.
Spread it there on the rock to dry.
Paddle this way.
He kept his wife busy although she wanted to filet fish.
The flag is folded thirteen times when it is put away.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
Look for the Big Dipper.
He looked underneath for his trousers.
Well we ran right out of food. You should have gone shopping to look for what we could eat.
Let's go down to the shore and get some water.
A beaver is heard rippling the water inside the lodge
That bald eagle who is soaring around in the air is huge.
If he's always got a headache, don't give him a pill.
Every day I take my medicine (pills).
She took away her little sister's candy before she choked on it.
She looked from the top of the hill to the top to check out if the lake was frozen over yet.
Don't talk too loud. You'll wake grandpa who's sleeping.
We took turns pulling the nets because it was too windy.
Take the fish off the water after you have checked the net.
Please put the dishes away.
I usually put my shoes under the bed.
Where are you all coming from?
Where is he digging?
It's going to be warm tomorrow.
When the wind blows from the south, it will be warmer.
If you see blue flames in the fire in the winter, the warm weather is coming.
That boy is sitting on top of the house.
He fell off the roof.
What kind of bird is calling?
What kind of bird is it?
Climb up to the bird's nest to see the baby birds.
He approved what he saw of the proposed rules he was given that they were going to decide on.
Please copy what was written.
I ran out of toilet paper. I went and bought some when I went to town.
The leaves have a nice color to them at this time of the month in September.
The summer jacket I bought yesterday is  a nice color.
I thawed out the meat like you asked me to.
She played a trick on him.
He asked his brother to meet to settle their business matter.
He tells him not to go out on the ice when it's dangerous.
They distributed the vegetables they brought.
They are giving away the dressers that they brought.
He drives the beaver (carcass) down to the water to throw it in.
We went ricing for the first time last fall.
He returned it even though he had accepted it.
She's wearing rings on both hands.
Fill it this high.
How much rice did you have in your canoe by noon?
How thick is the ice now? Can we walk on it now?
Tie down your sled wrapper.
Filet those walleyes.
That pail leaks.
Sometime in the early spring, the maple trees start dripping to be tapped for maple sugar making.
When they called his name, he came and slid there in between us there when they wanted to award him his prize.
The crows arrive when there's a south wind.
They each have only a little money.
They gave out a little tobacco to each one.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
Every now and then it is easy for us to work on the Ojibwe language.
An owl almost caught my cat.
We've got an angora cat.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
There is a new moon.
I've asked for one of the doors of the old house they're tearing down.
This is the wrestler that just got home. He's been wrestling for years.
They hauled stones from way off in the woods to use for the sweat lodge.
Hold out that coup stick that you've got in your hand.
Where is she from?
A beaver can be heard chewing from across the lake.
Do you want to sell your motorcycle?
He's selling everything.
He looks cute the way he dances.
The tree fell on my brother and hurt him.
The ice is rough in the spring. You shouldn't skate on it.
She really loves her grandma.
I wouldn't be able to go. I don't have very much money.
Those people I went and saw in Canada have a strange dialect.
It's not very windy.
The board that I nailed on was weak.
She is shaping the bannock to cook.
Lace and tie your shows right
He made a stronger statement.
Where does he set his snares?
She is suffering from smoke inhalation having been pulled out of the house fire.
This one was her first partner.
Don't be amazed at him because he's acting up.
Let's go stay under the bridge. [in a canoe]
You sew with basswood bark to make birch bark baskets.
They tipped when they slid off the road around the turn.
How deep is the canoe?
The one who was pinned down took a long time to pull himself free.
If your hear a blue jay calling in the winter, he's telling you that it warm up for a few days.
Go get some cigarettes for me. | What kind? | Camels.
Go easy on your bike.
Respect out guest.
The cloud coming is carrying a squall with it.
That radio is loud.
They sent my son overseas to go fight.
She chased him from the well.
Let's go fishing (angling) between the islands.
Well, first I honor the spirits.
He tried to pull open the stuck drawer.
Hang your snare under the boughs.
She warms up her child's mitts before she puts them on him.
He's too busy for me to hire.
He belongs to that family.
Follow what's printed on the paper.
He followed the directions when he assembled the cabinet.
She finally drove back home after being gone a long time.
I'll go hunting with you. We'll go look for a moose.
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
When a big wind came along, a lot of trees blew down.
The twins finally met [they haven't seen each other for a long time].
Stick that sign someplace else.
He secretly wooed his girlfriend during the ceremony.
Pay close attention to how they preach to you. You will live better (if you heed it).
Where's s/he snowshoeing to?
How fast is he driving?
He cut up the meat fast. He's really got a sharp knife.
What are those sitting over there?
He's putting his marbles together.
He's secretly laughing at the one farting from laughing so hard.
There's going to be a canoe race today. We should go and watch.
The burning house is spewing black smoke.
What's it like (of a hide)?
The car stopped in the middle of the road.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
A car is parked in the middle of the road.
He retrieved the ricing boat that drifted out.
I will not vote for that crazy-thinking person who is running for treasurer.
The burning) kinick-kinick smells good.
Go in the shade when the sun is too hot.
He dropped that jug and it fell to pieces.
She tested the temperature of the water using the tip of her finger.
Loosen the lid on your pot before it boils over.
He has the same name as mine. (by coincidence)
Don't laugh if she makes a mistake (in speaking) unless she laughs first and then we 'll all laugh together.
Can you dirty that table?
Don't ever listen to him if he asks you to go along.
That's where they put up the hotel, in the middle of town.
THat's why I went there -- there were a lot of fish jumping out of the water.
There's a big ripple. I think it was a big sturgeon jumping out of the water.
You should count the marbles.
He's washing his pets.
Just make it any old way.
I do it any old way.
We only riced about half a boat full.
Don't rice yet until the flowers fall.
Come on, let's hurry.
Go over there quickly.
If your old car is making a rattling noise, you're going to be walking soon.
The skler came to an abrupt stop.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
Just like what he said yesterday.
My mother used lard when she sugared off so her syrup wouldn't boil over.
The phone rang all morning long (this morning).
I was going to call you again. My phone isn't working. I think it's disconnected.
What is this needle used for? / This is the one I use for putting beaver hides on hoops.
You people too were mentioned in that honoring ceremony.
That child who did somethong wrong ran under the platform to hide.
My daughter went under the bed when she made her little sister cry.
I scattered the seeds. And this is where all those snowbirds come flocking around.
Where is she burning stuff?
I went outside, and my feet got cold, so I went inside and took off my shoes.
I really liked that baked beaver.
She’s not with her husband any more.
He worked on his car. Now it runs good.
The sun is high at noon.
Use the foot pump to inflate your air mattress.
The hotel where I'm staying is at the edge of town
Where's he paddling from?
They're keeping an eye on that cash box sitting there.
Be sure to always take your gun permit long when you go hunting.
They helped him unload his groceries he bought.
The moose is eating in the middle of the river.
A mud turtle sticks its head out in the middle of the river.
The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
Play the radio!. = Turn on the radio.
They took my horse to the fair.
Please post that letter.
I'm finally finishing my quilt.
He hired somebody to go after his boat.
He speaks well of the island he went to see.
If you don't know how to do it, practice it!
He talked about the good dream he had about a big pow-wow.
Look at what that girl is doing.
Don't laugh at my bannock. It's going to taste good.
Unwrap the moose meat so it will thaw out.
He shrunk his hand drum because he held it too close to the fire.
My grandma is asking for a ride to go shopping.
There's a lot of blueberries in this pine grove.
He recognized the smell of that fox who must have been nearby.
He's cleaning out his stovepipes.
The smoke hurts the eyes in here. I think there is a hole in the chimney.
Put your ceremonial food in the dish.
The old lady smudged that person who was feeling ill.
I cook carrots with it when I make soup.
He said he was coming, but he never showed up.
He wasn't there when I got there.
Let's go look at the hayfield. It's starting to burn.
The book he went and borrowed is thick.
The feather I found is spotted.
I found a stone by the lake.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
Everyone wishes for a nice day tomorrow so we can enjoy picking rice.
He attached his house number on.
Put it in your pocket.
What the heck! Are you lazy?
The beaver come out of the water when they make holes in ice looking for fresh saplings to eat.
He is puling the beaver he shot out of the water.
What he wanted wasn't there so he got kind of mad and said the hell with it.
That girl slapped her boy friend in the face.
Dogs barked all night.
Fill the stove so the fire will go all night.
She cooled off her jug of milk in the water overnight.
What's it for?
The old lady gave a loud war whoop she was so happy to hear the drum and the singers.
He went all over the neighborhood trying to find out where they moved to.
I'm helping out everywhere with revitalizing the Native language.
Where is the wholesale store?
He's feeling around for his flashlight. | Did he find it?
He chopped down that signpost intentionally.
He slid the stone rather easily.
What is he mouthing off about now?
Step on your brakes to stop.
What's that name of that lady sitting over there.
I wonder what that lady is telling about.
He tried to win that beautiful woman for himself.
How high does it hang?
How big is it (something animate and stick-like)?
My motor isn't running.
Do you want to borrow a motor.
He's the only one who knows how to start the outboard motor.
What are you thinking about? | I wish.
It's still morning. I thought maybe it was afternoon.
What do you think?
I was not too happy when I was put at the end of the line when they were distributing the vegetables.
Go run for your saw. We'll go get some firewood.
The snake I saw yesterday was long.
Take it back because it's too small. I can't fit into it.
Pile up the firewood to dry.
Could you please come and help me when I pile up the wood.
What do people think of h/? How is s/he regarded?
It's amazing the way he's working on that house.
He's carrying the rocks off the boat, the ones he went to get for his sweat.
Go get the guy across the lake that's yelling  (to be picked up).
You can hear the flies buzzing inside it.
He was happy that they called on him to go speak at the council meeting.
He kissed his grandmother he was so happy to see her.
Set the rocks ashore, the ones you are going to use for the sweat.
The cord they used to tie the net was strong.
Wrap up your child warm when you tie him in the cradle board.
Put the window curtains up out of the way.
They're doing the same kind of sewing, even the same design.
He worked on the old net for a while. He should have been done a long time ago.
You missed your ride. The bus went by here a long time ago.
I wonder what they're looking for.
How long is the boat?
He cut up and ruined that lumber they were going to use.
Don't bother that old lady. She's busy mending.
The old women who are going to sing the accompaniment are assembling.
They laughed at my cousin when his old lady over-powered him.
He dreamed about his father ricing.
Prime your saw so it will start.
Please go get some bread at the store. Get a hurry on!
When we got there, they were already having a big pow-wow.
I'm going to go to pow-wows all summer.
The messenger starting off running to spread the word that the pow-wow will begin.
Let's go eat across town.
The lance is pointed.
Use a shotgun if you are duck-hunting.
If it clouds over, nasty weather is coming soon.
If the ice starts to melt, we'll have to try crossing early in the morning.
The storekeeper cheated the old lady.
He left some meat.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
He overshot where he was going so he ran into the water.
Don't leave the door open too long. The mosquitos will get in.
Everyone here is sleeping.
Hurry and slam the lid on the box before it (a mouse) runs out.
Don't slam the door yet. The key is still inside.
Do you know what a red willow looks like and the shape of its leaves?
That's where he goes and hangs snares, by the meadow.
Turn out the light.
How much does a slab of bacon weigh?
He says he feels bad about how he's  going to vote [because he thinks there's no viable candidate].
The muskrat pelt of mine I hung up got blown down
It's still raining.
Please close the door. It's cold outside.
I ordered a loaf of bread through someone this afternoon.
They blame me for that dent on that old car.
Are you blaming me? I wasn't even here last night.
He's crying because he lost his dog.
He's giving up his car because he doesn't see well enough anymore to drive.
It was calm and serene last night. All you could hear was the lake, the water slapping against the shore.
The one that was going to phone my hasn't yet.
Where is she skating to?
Hoe the corn.
Take your backpack away. Take it someplace else.
My son stopped here just briefly. He's in a hurry to get where he wants to go.
It's quite a ways to her work site, but still she goes back home every day.
That old lady that just came in went and bought a fan.
A moose is charging the light.
I've already got moose three times.
I saw a moose crossing the road.
She came out crying after watching the movie.
Walleyes spawn in the spring.
My daughter wrapped up her baby.
Back up so the weeds will come off (your propeller).
Rake out the thimble you dropped under the table. Use a stick to rake it out with.
The firewood is over there at the back.
I sit in the back when we go to town in the car.
He misplaced his gloves when they fell [on the floor].
The ice is melting.
The ice gets sharp and prickly from the sun in the spring.
Hide your keys from him. He doesn't have his driver's license yet.
Be careful with those eggs. You'll break them
Go easy on your jacket.
He threw the sausage on the snow (to cool) after he roasted it.
Let's dance for the new dancer entering for the first time.
The lazy one is pretending to work.
He tipped over the ketlle when he accidentally hit it.
The hide hung there too long -- that's the reason why it rotted.
All of a sudden my daughter went home.
My husband just up and left. I don't know where he's going.
I've been cutting pulp in the bush all winter long.
When we were cutting wood last winter, we took a lot of jack pine out of that grove.
What are you holding? (in cards)
He's been really bothered since he lost his friend.
We lost three boys in the war abroad. They never came back.
They liked the huge cornfield they saw.
He cut up the fish to smoke for nameteg.
How is he/she growing?
You should tell your children about how they should respect things so they can have healthy and good  lives.
I speak just a little bit of Ojibwe.
If you're going to be gone for a while, leave some money for your wife.
Tie your snowshoe straps tighter.
It's going to rain all day today. It won't be until tomorrow that we'll plant our garden.
Untie your snowshoe strap.
He was the last one in the boat. But he should have untied the boat first before he got in.
The cartridge fits well into the rifle.
The pole where the flag flies is pretty tall.
My mother sugared off when she made sugar and made sugar cakes.
How much rice so you want?
How many of them are there standing?
Their tracks come off the water at the rocky point.
He got lonesome for his dad so went and looked for him.
Put your bag right in the middle of the canoe.
Do you know how to talk Ojibwe?
He's barely able to lift that sack of potatoes.
There was barely enough frybread.
He's barely alive having been in a serious accident.
He went to drag in the trees that blew down.
The kid's hands were dirty and they were told to wash their hands.
He accidentally hit the jug and that's how he broke it.
Somebody picked up that shell that was lying here.
He lowered the pail down into the well.
Don't touch that bug.
He's working at the sawmill.
It's pretty well known already who is going to win the leadership.
He came in singing. Maybe the baseball players won the game.
What's that rope like?
Where does he smoke his meat?
Yesterday when the snow was moist, my dad made the trail. Today it is well-packed down.
If there are ripples in the sky in the winter, there will soon be ripples of snow on the ice.
It took us three days to cut wood. My son helped me.
When the snow is high, a moose frequents one place.
Cut out the pattern for how big you want your moccasins to be.
How big is it (something sheet-like)?
The way that little dog looks amuses me. It's kind of homely.
If he doesn't go around the deep part of the water, he'll be stuck.
The net floats fell as I tried to gather and stack them.
The draft is coming from the door there. I think the door is falling.
She came running down to the shore to greet me when I arrived.
That radiator looks good.
That young man who just left was in a hurry.
He eat junk food. That's why he has high blood pressure.
S/he already carried h/ canoe over the portage before noon.
She's hurting him by pinching him.
Rise that grows in a lake is long-grained.
I was informed ahead of time that there was a big storm coming our way yesterday.
He dished up a bowl of soup to eat.
Don't point to the reef. A strong wind will come up if you point at a reef.
He was really happy with the gift he got from the give-away.
What do you think about the resolution that's being entered.
He got up to the deer he was chasing through the water.
Grab that child. He's too close to the swimming pool.
He relies on his mother to take care of him.
Rely on your tobacco when you are asked to help at a ceremony.
My teacup is too small. I didn't get enough to drink.
He lent his house to the pow-wow visitors to sleep in.
Where is your sweat lodge set up?
He was sleeping sitting up at the table.
We got stranded across the lake yesterday because the waves were too big.
The birch bark comes off the trees easily at the beginning of summer.
Lean your snowshoes up against a tree.
Cook your bannock by the side of the fire. Stand it up facing the fire.
It got so dark because the clouds covered the moon.
It's a nice night for the Northern lights.
That person that's really hateful goes around visiting all the time.
The one girl we used to play with was terrible.
He hauled it away anyway even though they tried to stop him.
How does it (animate) smell?
If you can, cut away that little twig.
I already made my meal for when I get home this evening.
Go get ready and we'll visit that certain lady.
He miscounted how many furs he had.
Are the chairs already set up for the evernt.
Touch his knee.
Keep an eye on him. He's in the habit of stealing wood.
I wish there was some bacon grease.
Take this old stove out.
Use birch buds if you want to snare a rabbit or a partridge.
I shot four partridges with one shot while they were eating in a tree.
I think I made a bad purchase when I got those shoes. One of them is bigger.
I add carrots when I make soup.
We'll go pick berries after the leaves are dry. They are too wet now.
What are your carrying on your shoulders?
That rooster you can hear sounds kind of strange. He really sounds terrible.
The spoon he used was black.
The spoons are too small.
The rain makes the flowers open up.
Everything opens up when it rains, even the blueberries.
How big is it (something animate and string-like)?
The old wagon squeaks because it's so rusty.
I was making a fire and burnt myself, and it hurt.
While they  were driving along, they stopped short. The points were were burned out.
My pajama's that I was looking for for, I didn't know there were hanging in between other items.
They don't like my cooking. They didn't even eat it.
They children go around on top of the snow playing hide-and-seek.
Today I set out some snares and tomorrow I will check them. I'll make a rabbit stew if I snare a rabbit.
My mother called wild rice "Indian rice".
That ol' dog chased that cat up a tree.
She put the child to sleep in the cradle swing.
She bundled her baby up to put him to sleep.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
He completed the five-mile course he was told to do.
Where is he standing at?
The one hauling the wood on the sled started pulling it.
Please kick the pail on its side.
I asked him to sit a little closer.
He fell asleep there while he was trying to watch television.
There was a good movie we went and watched at our neighbors.
He's a master at working on ash to bend it to shape.
He pulled out the pine that he'd dragged here on the water.
Make your stretcher a little smaller. What you are going to stretch on it is pretty small.
The war is over and we'll have peace now.
It's real quiet on Fridays. Everyone goes to town to shop.
I fell and hurt my elbow.
He's packing the nets in a box.
The one paddling here is paddling against the wind.
That bear didn't fit when he tried to crawl into that den.
A grackle tastes very good when it's roasted over a fire.
It's easy for him to pull the load because he's coming along behind (someone else).
They say I look like my aunt, my mother's younger sister.
