He was trying to find the billfold he dropped in the darkened garage.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
I'm going to eat bannock.
I met my grandfather halfway down the lake.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
I dug worms after it rained.
The deer and the moose lose their antlers past midwinter.
I add salt when I eat.
Let's make moose of clay to see who does it best.
Knead your bannock before you put it in the oven and cook it.
Before we take that hay out of here, you'd better tie it down good.
We went with our mother blueberry picking and I picked the biggest ones.
The board that I nailed on was weak.
They sent my son overseas to go fight.
She warms up her child's mitts before she puts them on him.
I'll go hunting with you. We'll go look for a moose.
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
I really liked that baked beaver.
The moose is eating in the middle of the river.
There's a lot of blueberries in this pine grove.
I cook carrots with it when I make soup.
She cooled off her jug of milk in the water overnight.
A moose is charging the light.
I've already got moose three times.
I saw a moose crossing the road.
He cut up the fish to smoke for nameteg.
When the snow is high, a moose frequents one place.
I add carrots when I make soup.
Everything opens up when it rains, even the blueberries.
I was alone in the canoe when I shot the deer.
I shot a beaver under the water.
I can't reach it because I'm too short.
I ate cake when I had my birthday.
When I fry potatoes, I add onions.
Can you boil that fish?
I'm boiling beans.
I never played with bugs.
The ravens make a lot of noise when they caw.
I looked for blueberries in the brush.
I boiled some corn.
He got five partridges down when he shot. He used a shotgun.
The berries will be ripe towards the last part of the summer.
He picked out the ripe blueberries.
Come on, let's put these potatoes in your sack.
Turn an otter hide fur-side out after you dry it.
Oops, the moose already got out of the water (and is gone).
I put honey in tea.
I rub the frozen blueberries (in the bag) to pour a few onto my plate.
I saw a moose going across the forested ridge.
Don't make any noise on the canoe. You'll scare off our game.
I want you to come here.
I'm looking for a shady spot to pick berries in.
I use a comb when I comb my daughter's hair.
Can you tap that tree over there?
They each scoop up a lot of blueberries.
Blueberries turn brownish in the late fall.
I'm invited to the naming ceremony.
He's telling about the blueberries across the ravine.
Do you put brown sugar in your own oatmeal? | No, I put salt in.
She came and told us there were berries.
I'm five feet ten inches tall.
Use the comb to comb h/ hair.
Don't play with the fire. You'll wet the bed. [a warning to children]
Is the moose you shot still breathing?
Moose tastes different.
Call the moose.
I hope the Native language will carry on.
