The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
The manitous coming are continuously flashing lightning
He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
He drove across the high bridge.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
The boy worked around the neighborhood.
I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
Please clear off the platform for my son-in-law to set down the deer he's bring in on his back.
He's working on the deer he shot.
He's looking for the deer he wounded.
It wiggles up and down as it moves around.
Don't run with your gun.
That old cat has got a mouse in her mouth.
The car screeches going by on the road.
I drank some pop.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Lay the yardstick here.
It looks like this one got shiny-faced. Are you drinking?
Pull the window open.
I brought one gallon of gas.
About four-thirty in the morning it starts to get light.
It's getting dark but it is still light in the living room.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
When they crossed the stream, they waded through the water.
He put the board across the crack in the ice -- that's how he got across.
Mix the oil into the gas.
He is operating the sawmill.
Where is the voting going to take place? | I think it's in the main building.
The ice comes up on shore when it drifts around in the spring.
Let's eat across from the doorway,
Rabbits chewed the sticks bare. We'll set our snares here.
There is a draft here.
He changed the position of the hide. He turned it over on its back.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
The lightning hit the ground.
Always keep your gas can full.
That car I bought has a lot of problems.
I'm so sick I'm just hurting.
He went to the chicken coop to gather up the eggs.
He turned around the glass pane they had set.
The torchers were gone all night.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
We'll go shining later because it's too early in the night.
He is also spit-shining his shoes.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
She tried waving his arms at the driver to stop him.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
The robin is the spirit bird that gave (my grandmother) my name.
Where is he toting it (on his back).
He couldn't see him when he wanted him to go after water.
It's pretty still outside. There's no wind blowing.
He was nominated to sit on the tribal council.
They selected my grandaughter to be the princess at the last pow-wow.
He has whiskers. {Literally: He has a mouse sticking out of his mouth.]
A redheaded woodpecker gets its food from a tree. That's why it makes holes in the tree.
I just swept up any old way.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
There's somebody shooting on the other side of the rapids.
How are quills used? / Quills are used when something is decorating with embroidery, maybe a small birch bark box.
The paddler accidentally hit the reef right on.
It won't fit because it's too short.
Put the tobacco in the pipe.
The boys are done skinning the deer.
She doesn't let her children be out at night.
He chased that animal into a corner.
If you keep pulling a hide to dry it, it will get softer.
I didn't like the taste of the beets they fed me.
Last summer we planted potatoes.
That girl did it to herself and that's why her arm is in sling.
The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
Last night two men capsized (their motor boat). One nearly drowned.
He was trying to find the billfold he dropped in the darkened garage.
The Thunderbirds come from the west as they go by us.
The old man brags a lot about that old cur.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
The rice must be ripe now.
How much does that cow cost?
Don't bother him. He's busy working on a car. You'll distract him.
The person who made my vest made a mistake. She sewed it up so it's puckered.
He's watching that guy and trying to copy him but he still made that mistake.
His dog finally took after him, the one who's always teasing him.
Bizhikiins is late all the time.
He teaches his grandchild all the time.
I'm going to eat bannock.
The thing you're looking for is sticking out of the snow.
He really like that song and that's why he taped it.
Fill that burlap sack halfway.
We poured the sugar water into the tank when we gathered the sap in the evening.
Let's go take the net out.
We'll pull out our net as early as dawn.
His voice is not strong enough for me to understand him.
Whatever dialect you learn or however you learn to speak Ojibwe, the creator will always understand you, no matter how you sound.
Whatever that is he's talking about, I don't understand him.
He sounded hoarse when I called him this morning. I could barely understand him.
He hiked over there, the hiker, the one who hiked the cut.
They met their mother halfway when she was released from the hospital.
He gave away that nice hat I bought for him.
Don't get friendly with the bear. He's too dangerous.
That dog's hair stood up as he barked at the bear.
They spotted a bear in the light when they cast a light in that direction.
The den where a bear sleeps is hollow.
I thought what he told me was amazing.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
The whiteman thinks it's easy to dance at a powwow.
He really didn't come.
He didn't even dream about the thunder and lightning because he was sleeping too deeply.
That's where he had his sugar camp -- in the wilderness.
The person who is always roaming around finally arrived.
These Indian hockey players come from all over.
The old bachelor has a dirty house. He doesn't know how to keep it clean.
Remember your sister-in-law is going to have a birthday.
Work with that man working over there.
He's working with that man.
Who is going to work with you when you guys build your house.
I met my grandfather halfway down the lake.
We were away a long time when we went to the city.
Where the hell did you put it?
He sleeps with his wallet. He's afraid someone's going to steal it from him.
If you catch a flying squirrel in the trap, throw it back in the box as your bait.
Can you come later? I'm going to cut some wood first.
He's burning the brush out on the point where's he's going to plant his garden later.
The one paddling here is going against the wind. It will be some time before he gets here.
He spun the top.
When its raining you can hear the nice sound of the rain falling.
How long is the lake?
His tooth is bothering him.
He listens to his father's teachings. / He minds his father's teachings.
If it's overcast in the summer, there's always a bunch of mosquitos.
Everyone thinks he is never going to finish his house because he is too lazy.
Ring the bell.
At nine o'clock he's going to ring the bell.
If s/he rings my phone, I'm going to ask h/ if I can work for h/.
Come here, my grandmother said to me.
There's a black cloud coming up from the west.
Look back at the one who's coming, how she's dressed.
What are they playing? / I think they are playing the moccasin game.
There's a leak in the middle of the tent.
Would you please go get me a cup of tea to drink.
The water in the lake is polluted. Don't drink it.
You can see a little boat running along way out in the lake.
The one who just came ashore is gasping for breath. He swam from way out in the lake.
I saw the guy that owes me money coming this way, but he quickly hid behind something.
This morning he gave a spirit name to his namesake.
It was the new moon of January the other night.
I heard that he come out of the hospital two nights ago.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
They're telling us it's our turn to talk.
A wood tick bit him in the middle of the chest.
When that man was walking he fell down.
He tracked his father toward the west.
Take him in that direction.
You should hang it this way so it will be visible.
How are they related?
Wah, the liquor they gave me to drink is very strong.
I hear him moving around in the other room. I don't know what he's doing.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
I locked my car when I got home.
Go lock up the cow barn.
Did  you lock the car?
Lock your car if you're going to spend the night in the city.
Lock the gate on your driveway you just came out of.
She dunked her cookie to soften it.
Please take me to the hospital. I'm going to go see the doctor. I'm sick.
He didn't know what to think when they came and told him his grandmother was very ill.
I was sick and it just hurt.
I think my brother is giving up. He isn't able to eat anymore because his is so very sick.
Dry your socks near the stove.
That's where the path goes, by the river.
The town is by the lake.
There's a bed next to the wall.
She stopped her horse before they got on the ice.
How is that road?
The roads are bad.
Set your trap for a beaver on its trail.
They went around marking the trees they were going to cut down.
Go take the sheets down (off the line).
Make a lunch for me to take along.
He came out carrying his little son on his back in a cradle board.
He didn't feel good; that's why he went for treatment.
I have money in my wallet
He didn't know his road --  that's why he got lost.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
I didn't know what to do, so I tried it.
A cat is sleeping on the bed.
Was it still daylight when he got ready for bed?
I saw a teenagers smoking in the alley.
That young man broke his leg because he fell off the horse.
I used to be the one to scrub the floor when our floor was dirty.
Don't touch that bug.
That man didn't hear me. I think he's deaf.
I heard someone yelling at daybreak.
Hear h/ out. / Try to understand what h/ is saying.
Was what I said heard? = Did you understand me?
He laced that linament [watering it to make it drinkable] so that's why he's half-shot.
Please find your grandfather's glasses.
Don't bother your grandfather. He's busy making kinnickinick
He divorced his wife.
If you see bowlegged tracks of something, they're porcupine tracks.
I couldn't reach that thread because they put it up too high for me.
My grandmother was put in a retirement home because she isn't able to take care of herself.
My grandfather surprised me when he came around the corner.
I hide my money underground.
I cooked three times today.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
She was born in the winter.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
How far along in the winter is it?
He sings that song different than the way we sing it.
He was hired to drive so that's why he's driving around.
That boy's teeth are chattering he's so cold.
Come and put that yardstick against the wall. I want to find out how high it is.
He's indicating that the wind is from the north.
All evening he's holding a light for the guy who's working on his car.
He did a good thing when he deposited his money into the bank.
Don't put your it here on on the top of the roof. Your cup might get blown down.
I'm eating some candies.
How long are his arms?
Go tell him to hurry up.
Where is she running to?
Go swing that baby you hear crying.
I kicked the dog coming to try to bite me.
That statue you're making, make it good.
She makes the bread the same way I do it.
He thinks it's kind of easy for him to get that big buck I saw out in the woods
Thaw it first to make apple juice (from frozen concentrate).
The meat is frozen solid. I'll put it in the water first to thaw it before I cook it.
He sings that song different from the way he heard it.
His fishing pole fell in because it slipped out of his hands.
She's  making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
Put your blueberries in the shade before they burst open from the sun.
I dropped the cup and it broke.
She  made the doll she made for her little daughter small.
Where is he whacking it to?
He hit his (golf)ball right out on a field of snow
Pull out your knife.
He pulled out the shell that was jammed in the chamber.
She chased the disorderly child outside.
Her son got on board, but she told him to get off.
That bottle is half full with wine.
The jars are boiling.  [to use in canning]
In a hot country, there was only snow on top of the mountains.
I dug worms after it rained.
The canoe that blew ashore came from the point
Cold winds blow from the north.
He isn't able to get aboard the motorboat because its sides are too high.
Taste that sturgeon.
That table is dirty. Can you clean it?
I'm cleaning the rice I brought up. I pick out the broken stalk tips.
I hunted for night crawlers late at night when there was dew.
It is a short song.
He composed that song by himself.
It cost him a lot to fix his boat.
I want to fix my little car.
I wish you would come and fix my platform.
On Wednesday I set up the tent.
Long ago this is what they did first when they erected the bark hut.
The radiator froze and that's why the engine in my car overheated.
The tea was real good. He brewed it really well.
Steam your veggies to eat them.
The boy wiped the snot off his nose.
I think they're going to buy us lunch tomorrow.
There's ample distribution.
How do you regard the chairman? I don't know...it's too early to tell.
He jumped out of the rice boat too soon and that's why it tipped over.
The one pushing the logs down the rapids fell off.
The sleeper is whimpering and sobbing. I think he's having a bad dream.
The soaring eagle cast a sudden shadow where I was standing.
Where is s/he dragging h/?
It was a strong statement that was written by the governor.
The newsletter told the happy news about the upcoming powwow.
How fast is it going?
Is that how fast it's going?
That kind doesn't bite.
She's warming up soup for her grandfather.
Open those cans.
He's rushing downstairs to go answer his ringing phone.
I'll untangle that rope. I think the tug of war contestants are going to use it.
My grandson almost killed our cat.
Let's eat some bannock with it.
That man is unable to work.
I want to work in the sawmill this winter.
Move that. Move it further away.
Where is he taking it?
Carry it upstairs.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
I bought a fast motor to use to go berry-picking this summer.
Are you guys able to build an addition? | Yup,  we know how to do it.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
Take it easy. The road is very slippery.
Rub your dog's belly. Check it for bugs.
Even if you only pay a little bit each time for your car, some day you will pay it off.
I chewed on some real strong bitterroot.
The puppies almost froze to death, so I brought them in.
They took the names of the people that are going to be working on the house that is going to be built.
Cars no longer have to be cranked. They used to be long ago.
The last person I worked for was a very good person, a good boss.
We went to the dance Sunday and that's where we camped.
Use balsams for your bedding when you make your wigwam.
How long is the ribbon that you clip on?
Flip those pancakes.
Look into  the pot.
The representatives already decided what they were going to do.
Have you decided how you are going to vote.
He got a real intense pain when he fell yesterday.
It was a bad day yesterday and that's why I didn't go out in the woods.
Yesterday I smoked a lot of meat. Today I'll make pemmican.
When the boughs are dry, we'll go get them; they're too wet now.
Where I come from they always speak the Native language.
Where is he wading to?
She's taking her net down to the lake to set it.
She would have been almost run over if it hadn't been for me pushing her out of the way.
He pushed the little boy out of the way before he got hit.
He carefully shaped the clay.
She worked the clay she wanted to use to soften it.
I only talked with him for a little while before he got on the bus.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
He dropped his bustle off his back.
The bustle was ripped apart in the wind.
My bustle is hanging open.
The runner had a bad cramp in his leg and that's why it's sore.
The old lady went and hocked my rifle because she wanted to play bingo.
Those mushrooms (in the rice) are wet.
You should often visit the elders. You will learn something there about leading a good life.
My daughter wears glasses when she drives. She doesn't see very well.
I want to wear my jacket but he's got it on.
Put on your rubber boots. The grass outside is wet.
He soaked his hat before he put it on because he was sweating a lot.
He made a mistake when he tore a piece off the roof.
Where's he driving to?
I'm driving to my grandmother's house.
There are two dogs in the team the one that goes shopping drives.
The old dipper has got a hole in it; that's why it leaks.
There's no way I'd vote for that thief.
We sit together when we work on Ojibwe words.
How far along is he with the work on the house? Is he putting the roof on it yet?
The berry pickers paddled out of the river this morning.
The trapper, done with trapping, is portaging all his stuff. He's going to paddle to the mouth to go home.
What's it like? (of cloth or paper)
Look at this child standing there. He's just filthy dirty.
Drag the beaver you trapped home.
Tell that boy to go home.
He's going to pound on his drum and sing the day after tomorrow.
The thing you are looking for is over there on the ground.
Don't take out all the money if you go to the bank. Leave me some!
She (or he) is approaching the status of an elder now.
The deer and the moose lose their antlers past midwinter.
The person going after water only took one pail.
The moon is really bright even though it's a half-moon.
When the women help with the singing they do what is called zhaabowe.
He cleaned his pipe for him.
The baseball team overwhelmed the challengers who came to play with them.
Just go ahead. We'll catch up to you anyway.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
I'm going to go after ten pounds of sugar.
Bring me two feet of that black ribbon.
Hand me that black thread.
He pretended to sleep during the thunder.
The children are chasing each other around playing tag.
Come on let's eat.
Come on, let's go dance.
Come over here
Let's go into the woods.
It's late. We should go lie down.
Come on, let's go to town.
That food that's been there for a while got moldy.
Load your gun. | I loaded it already.
He brought an empty pail
She brought a new car.
Leave it alone. Don't bother it.
Stick the meat on the spit.
The leaves fall off the trees that have them towards late fall.
She greased up the pan to fry something.
Select very carefully what you want to take.
Which moccasins did you choose?
I add salt when I eat.
He tried to break the string but he couldn't do it.
He is unable to pull the rope. Maybe it's frozen to the ground.
The boy looks just like his dad.
The cars looked the same.
He's following in the same footsteps as what he's tracking.
It looks the same (as another thing).
How much does the buck you shot weigh? | It weighs almost three hundred pounds.
How does it smell?
How many pairs/sets/dozens are there of them?
Look at what they gave me at the language table last night.
(The drink) coffee is brown.
He's going to move further away tomorrow.
He did it right when he doled out the cups.
They're doing wrong bossing around the people doing the work.
Fill your pipe.
What's it called in English?
You don't have to ask me where we are going to go eat. It's up to you!
She gets him to run inside before his feet get cold.
I told him to get his head out of the way because he was sitting blocking the view.
She makes the bread the same way I do it.
I did it any old way.
Policy has been set for us to follow in the government.
Sure I'll go with you.
Those clothes smell musty because they've been sitting there for a long time.
Point out to her where she should sit.
Bend the sticks of the frame before making the waaginogaan.
He cried for his grandmother who just went out.
If the snow is all melted on the muskeg, we'll find some cranberries.
It's almost full (of liquid).
He was going to say something but because of his brother-in-law being there he just stopped.
Sharpen your pencil.
A little while ago that water was nice and clear and now it's all dirtied up.
Carry your canoe on top of your car.
My parents are going upriver to their trapping area for the winter.
Don't go there. It's dangerous there where there's a bare cable.
Put it in your pocket.
Those are my offerings.
They are completing the medicine lodge.
Put a board under your pot so your tablecloth doesn't get burned.
It's time for our breakfast.
At seven o'clock that old man had his breakfast.
After the milk thaws out, we'll have breakfast.
Fill up my car halfway.
You can hear him along the shore chopping and shaping paddles.
She's tickling her little boy.
The pouch was too small -- that's why he enlarged it.
He spread out his pants on top of a rock to dry them.
How is s/he dressed?
Someone was occupying the bathroom. I waited for h/ to finish.
The representative backed up when he saw how difficult that resolution was.
Where are the clouds coming from?
Those young people are used to staying up all night.
He knows how to make drums because he copied his father.
Salt the chicken.
I'm going to rest this summer.
When someone makes an offering it's usually a blanket and tobacco.
I like when they sing that flirting song.
They hear the one who mowed the lawn yesterday moaning and groaning so he must be sore and aching today.
Wiggle your fingers.
Kick your shoes under the bed.
He has no idea where he dropped his wallet.
When he put the tire on, he put it on too loose.
He didn't sleep much last night so that's why he couldn't go on with what he was doing.
It was hot last night night. I lay there without covers all night.
Someone was heard crying last night. They sounded so small, like a child.
The house at the end of the road is where the guy you are asking for is living by himself.
Can you sew up those pants?
My pants are big.
She's patching my pants.
He stands at the end of the dock when he's fishing.
Pull your dock out of the water before it freezes up.
He was overwhelmed by what he was told.
The deer drivers are calling for each other.
That young man is built solid; that's why he is so powerful.
Let's make moose of clay to see who does it best.
When the bell rang, the wrestlers grappled with each other.
That lady didn't come yet.
You should find a place for him to sleep.
You should try to find the car of his that he lost. The police are trying to find it too.
The elderly lady who sews can still see clearly.
He's putting medicine on the knee he skinned.
Let's walk a little faster. We'll miss the train.
The one shooting the rapids goes down in the middle.
There's a rough ruffles in the middle of the rapids. I guess there's rocks under them. Let's go down on the edge.
He went over and stayed with his friend -- that's why he was gone all night.
It will be pretty dry this summer.
A snowshoe hare is white in the winter, brown in the summer.
I'm going to take the car and go pick up my lunch.
He hit him in the head when he missed the ball. I think he knocked him unconscious.
She pulled that hide out of the water after she got it soft.
He's foreman on that project where they're tarring the road.
Knead your bannock before you put it in the oven and cook it.
Don't knead your dough too long. It will harden up.
The doctor hurt me when he was pressing on my sore.
They all work together. Ants are certainly very strong.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
The motor boat stopped.
We pushed the car when it couldn't start.
She lent him money even though she didn't want to.
I went to work even though I was sore all over.
I went anyway.
I'm sitting with the ladies near the lake shore.
Let's work together revitalizing our language.
She braids her little daughter's hair nicely for school.
Put the tobacco down. [pointing to a place]
She put a stone in her mouth. [of a child]
When are you going to go after that tent that you loaned out?
Beavers have dark brown fur and sometimes white fur.
Come on, let's go to the casino. | It's up to you.
Well, they think he's in the casino.
I'm going to borrow your car tomorrow.
Stand on the chair!
He invited that old man to come and speak.
Can you make that sign that I want to use?
I hang the kettle close to the fire when I make soup.
Try and make the syrup you're making good.
Make your moccasins before the powwow season starts.
We helped translate the words too.
How strong is the wind?
How wide is it? (something animate)
Please cook the rabbit.
Please cook the rabbit for him.
Every time he moved he let off a stink.
He's hoeing his corn in the garden.
While he was hoeing his garden he remembered he'd put some meat on to boil.
If you leave your hat hanging outside for a long time, the color will fade.
That's the right way it is sewn.
Is she honest enough to be trusted?
Wash your hands before you eat. They're dirty.
Wash your hands first before you pick up the meat or you might get it dirty.
The (hockey) player scores.
Set your tea off the fire before it gets strong.
Write this in Ojibwe.
The chief called a meeting to find out about what is ahead for us.
Pretty soon we'll see July again.
How full is your water pail?
He dropped his bow when he jumped out of the way of the falling tree.
Set up your trap in the middle of the overflow.
The guy that's roofing will be climbing down pretty soon. Go set the table.
He shredded the document.
The mosquito crawled in his ear.
The fish is done (cooking).
Watch it from here.
They came out laughing after they watched the movie.
Put your bannock on top of the table.
Don't worry about him. He's making his way over here. He'll be here in time.
I'm waiting for my grandson. He didn't come.
The train has arrived.
Before we take that hay out of here, you'd better tie it down good.
You can hear the hay field crackling as it burns.
He mowed his father's grass.
He cut open the sack that was tied into in knots in order to open it.
Please turn on the air conditioner because it is hot here inside before grandma gets dizzy from the heat.
That battery did fit into the tight place.
He and his brother traded cars.
He ran out of oil so that's why he stopped the engine.
Work the rice with your feet to dehusk it.
He found signs that his dog must have been eating there. There were marks.
They're running around holding on to each other.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
We went with our mother blueberry picking and I picked the biggest ones.
I've been going around picking berries all summer.
I hurt my knee so that's why I'm limping.
He rubs his knee where he got hurt.
Use a dish towel when you're going to dry your dishes.
I parched the raw rice this morning.
Spread it there on the rock to dry.
Paddle this way.
He kept his wife busy although she wanted to filet fish.
The flag is folded thirteen times when it is put away.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
Look for the Big Dipper.
He looked underneath for his trousers.
Well we ran right out of food. You should have gone shopping to look for what we could eat.
Let's go down to the shore and get some water.
A beaver is heard rippling the water inside the lodge
That bald eagle who is soaring around in the air is huge.
If he's always got a headache, don't give him a pill.
Every day I take my medicine (pills).
She took away her little sister's candy before she choked on it.
She looked from the top of the hill to the top to check out if the lake was frozen over yet.
Don't talk too loud. You'll wake grandpa who's sleeping.
We took turns pulling the nets because it was too windy.
Take the fish off the water after you have checked the net.
Please put the dishes away.
I usually put my shoes under the bed.
Where are you all coming from?
Where is he digging?
It's going to be warm tomorrow.
When the wind blows from the south, it will be warmer.
If you see blue flames in the fire in the winter, the warm weather is coming.
That boy is sitting on top of the house.
He fell off the roof.
What kind of bird is calling?
What kind of bird is it?
Climb up to the bird's nest to see the baby birds.
He approved what he saw of the proposed rules he was given that they were going to decide on.
Please copy what was written.
I ran out of toilet paper. I went and bought some when I went to town.
The leaves have a nice color to them at this time of the month in September.
The summer jacket I bought yesterday is  a nice color.
I thawed out the meat like you asked me to.
She played a trick on him.
He asked his brother to meet to settle their business matter.
He tells him not to go out on the ice when it's dangerous.
They distributed the vegetables they brought.
They are giving away the dressers that they brought.
He drives the beaver (carcass) down to the water to throw it in.
We went ricing for the first time last fall.
He returned it even though he had accepted it.
She's wearing rings on both hands.
Fill it this high.
How much rice did you have in your canoe by noon?
How thick is the ice now? Can we walk on it now?
Tie down your sled wrapper.
Filet those walleyes.
That pail leaks.
Sometime in the early spring, the maple trees start dripping to be tapped for maple sugar making.
When they called his name, he came and slid there in between us there when they wanted to award him his prize.
The crows arrive when there's a south wind.
They each have only a little money.
They gave out a little tobacco to each one.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
Every now and then it is easy for us to work on the Ojibwe language.
An owl almost caught my cat.
We've got an angora cat.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
There is a new moon.
I've asked for one of the doors of the old house they're tearing down.
This is the wrestler that just got home. He's been wrestling for years.
They hauled stones from way off in the woods to use for the sweat lodge.
Hold out that coup stick that you've got in your hand.
Where is she from?
A beaver can be heard chewing from across the lake.
Do you want to sell your motorcycle?
He's selling everything.
He looks cute the way he dances.
The tree fell on my brother and hurt him.
The ice is rough in the spring. You shouldn't skate on it.
She really loves her grandma.
I wouldn't be able to go. I don't have very much money.
Those people I went and saw in Canada have a strange dialect.
It's not very windy.
The board that I nailed on was weak.
She is shaping the bannock to cook.
Lace and tie your shows right
He made a stronger statement.
Where does he set his snares?
She is suffering from smoke inhalation having been pulled out of the house fire.
This one was her first partner.
Don't be amazed at him because he's acting up.
Let's go stay under the bridge. [in a canoe]
You sew with basswood bark to make birch bark baskets.
They tipped when they slid off the road around the turn.
How deep is the canoe?
The one who was pinned down took a long time to pull himself free.
If your hear a blue jay calling in the winter, he's telling you that it warm up for a few days.
Go get some cigarettes for me. | What kind? | Camels.
Go easy on your bike.
Respect out guest.
The cloud coming is carrying a squall with it.
That radio is loud.
They sent my son overseas to go fight.
She chased him from the well.
Let's go fishing (angling) between the islands.
Well, first I honor the spirits.
He tried to pull open the stuck drawer.
Hang your snare under the boughs.
She warms up her child's mitts before she puts them on him.
He's too busy for me to hire.
He belongs to that family.
Follow what's printed on the paper.
He followed the directions when he assembled the cabinet.
She finally drove back home after being gone a long time.
I'll go hunting with you. We'll go look for a moose.
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
When a big wind came along, a lot of trees blew down.
The twins finally met [they haven't seen each other for a long time].
Stick that sign someplace else.
He secretly wooed his girlfriend during the ceremony.
Pay close attention to how they preach to you. You will live better (if you heed it).
Where's s/he snowshoeing to?
How fast is he driving?
He cut up the meat fast. He's really got a sharp knife.
What are those sitting over there?
He's putting his marbles together.
He's secretly laughing at the one farting from laughing so hard.
There's going to be a canoe race today. We should go and watch.
The burning house is spewing black smoke.
What's it like (of a hide)?
The car stopped in the middle of the road.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
A car is parked in the middle of the road.
He retrieved the ricing boat that drifted out.
I will not vote for that crazy-thinking person who is running for treasurer.
The burning) kinick-kinick smells good.
Go in the shade when the sun is too hot.
He dropped that jug and it fell to pieces.
She tested the temperature of the water using the tip of her finger.
Loosen the lid on your pot before it boils over.
He has the same name as mine. (by coincidence)
Don't laugh if she makes a mistake (in speaking) unless she laughs first and then we 'll all laugh together.
Can you dirty that table?
Don't ever listen to him if he asks you to go along.
That's where they put up the hotel, in the middle of town.
THat's why I went there -- there were a lot of fish jumping out of the water.
There's a big ripple. I think it was a big sturgeon jumping out of the water.
You should count the marbles.
He's washing his pets.
Just make it any old way.
I do it any old way.
We only riced about half a boat full.
Don't rice yet until the flowers fall.
Come on, let's hurry.
Go over there quickly.
If your old car is making a rattling noise, you're going to be walking soon.
The skler came to an abrupt stop.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
Just like what he said yesterday.
My mother used lard when she sugared off so her syrup wouldn't boil over.
The phone rang all morning long (this morning).
I was going to call you again. My phone isn't working. I think it's disconnected.
What is this needle used for? / This is the one I use for putting beaver hides on hoops.
You people too were mentioned in that honoring ceremony.
That child who did somethong wrong ran under the platform to hide.
My daughter went under the bed when she made her little sister cry.
I scattered the seeds. And this is where all those snowbirds come flocking around.
Where is she burning stuff?
I went outside, and my feet got cold, so I went inside and took off my shoes.
I really liked that baked beaver.
She’s not with her husband any more.
He worked on his car. Now it runs good.
The sun is high at noon.
Use the foot pump to inflate your air mattress.
The hotel where I'm staying is at the edge of town
Where's he paddling from?
They're keeping an eye on that cash box sitting there.
Be sure to always take your gun permit long when you go hunting.
They helped him unload his groceries he bought.
The moose is eating in the middle of the river.
A mud turtle sticks its head out in the middle of the river.
The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
Play the radio!. = Turn on the radio.
They took my horse to the fair.
Please post that letter.
I'm finally finishing my quilt.
He hired somebody to go after his boat.
He speaks well of the island he went to see.
If you don't know how to do it, practice it!
He talked about the good dream he had about a big pow-wow.
Look at what that girl is doing.
Don't laugh at my bannock. It's going to taste good.
Unwrap the moose meat so it will thaw out.
He shrunk his hand drum because he held it too close to the fire.
My grandma is asking for a ride to go shopping.
There's a lot of blueberries in this pine grove.
He recognized the smell of that fox who must have been nearby.
He's cleaning out his stovepipes.
The smoke hurts the eyes in here. I think there is a hole in the chimney.
Put your ceremonial food in the dish.
The old lady smudged that person who was feeling ill.
I cook carrots with it when I make soup.
He said he was coming, but he never showed up.
He wasn't there when I got there.
Let's go look at the hayfield. It's starting to burn.
The book he went and borrowed is thick.
The feather I found is spotted.
I found a stone by the lake.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
Everyone wishes for a nice day tomorrow so we can enjoy picking rice.
He attached his house number on.
Put it in your pocket.
What the heck! Are you lazy?
The beaver come out of the water when they make holes in ice looking for fresh saplings to eat.
He is puling the beaver he shot out of the water.
What he wanted wasn't there so he got kind of mad and said the hell with it.
That girl slapped her boy friend in the face.
Dogs barked all night.
Fill the stove so the fire will go all night.
She cooled off her jug of milk in the water overnight.
What's it for?
The old lady gave a loud war whoop she was so happy to hear the drum and the singers.
He went all over the neighborhood trying to find out where they moved to.
I'm helping out everywhere with revitalizing the Native language.
Where is the wholesale store?
He's feeling around for his flashlight. | Did he find it?
He chopped down that signpost intentionally.
He slid the stone rather easily.
What is he mouthing off about now?
Step on your brakes to stop.
What's that name of that lady sitting over there.
I wonder what that lady is telling about.
He tried to win that beautiful woman for himself.
How high does it hang?
How big is it (something animate and stick-like)?
My motor isn't running.
Do you want to borrow a motor.
He's the only one who knows how to start the outboard motor.
What are you thinking about? | I wish.
It's still morning. I thought maybe it was afternoon.
What do you think?
I was not too happy when I was put at the end of the line when they were distributing the vegetables.
Go run for your saw. We'll go get some firewood.
The snake I saw yesterday was long.
Take it back because it's too small. I can't fit into it.
Pile up the firewood to dry.
Could you please come and help me when I pile up the wood.
What do people think of h/? How is s/he regarded?
It's amazing the way he's working on that house.
He's carrying the rocks off the boat, the ones he went to get for his sweat.
Go get the guy across the lake that's yelling  (to be picked up).
You can hear the flies buzzing inside it.
He was happy that they called on him to go speak at the council meeting.
He kissed his grandmother he was so happy to see her.
Set the rocks ashore, the ones you are going to use for the sweat.
The cord they used to tie the net was strong.
Wrap up your child warm when you tie him in the cradle board.
Put the window curtains up out of the way.
They're doing the same kind of sewing, even the same design.
He worked on the old net for a while. He should have been done a long time ago.
You missed your ride. The bus went by here a long time ago.
I wonder what they're looking for.
How long is the boat?
He cut up and ruined that lumber they were going to use.
Don't bother that old lady. She's busy mending.
The old women who are going to sing the accompaniment are assembling.
They laughed at my cousin when his old lady over-powered him.
He dreamed about his father ricing.
Prime your saw so it will start.
Please go get some bread at the store. Get a hurry on!
When we got there, they were already having a big pow-wow.
I'm going to go to pow-wows all summer.
The messenger starting off running to spread the word that the pow-wow will begin.
Let's go eat across town.
The lance is pointed.
Use a shotgun if you are duck-hunting.
If it clouds over, nasty weather is coming soon.
If the ice starts to melt, we'll have to try crossing early in the morning.
The storekeeper cheated the old lady.
He left some meat.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
He overshot where he was going so he ran into the water.
Don't leave the door open too long. The mosquitos will get in.
Everyone here is sleeping.
Hurry and slam the lid on the box before it (a mouse) runs out.
Don't slam the door yet. The key is still inside.
Do you know what a red willow looks like and the shape of its leaves?
That's where he goes and hangs snares, by the meadow.
Turn out the light.
How much does a slab of bacon weigh?
He says he feels bad about how he's  going to vote [because he thinks there's no viable candidate].
The muskrat pelt of mine I hung up got blown down
It's still raining.
Please close the door. It's cold outside.
I ordered a loaf of bread through someone this afternoon.
They blame me for that dent on that old car.
Are you blaming me? I wasn't even here last night.
He's crying because he lost his dog.
He's giving up his car because he doesn't see well enough anymore to drive.
It was calm and serene last night. All you could hear was the lake, the water slapping against the shore.
The one that was going to phone my hasn't yet.
Where is she skating to?
Hoe the corn.
Take your backpack away. Take it someplace else.
My son stopped here just briefly. He's in a hurry to get where he wants to go.
It's quite a ways to her work site, but still she goes back home every day.
That old lady that just came in went and bought a fan.
A moose is charging the light.
I've already got moose three times.
I saw a moose crossing the road.
She came out crying after watching the movie.
Walleyes spawn in the spring.
My daughter wrapped up her baby.
Back up so the weeds will come off (your propeller).
Rake out the thimble you dropped under the table. Use a stick to rake it out with.
The firewood is over there at the back.
I sit in the back when we go to town in the car.
He misplaced his gloves when they fell [on the floor].
The ice is melting.
The ice gets sharp and prickly from the sun in the spring.
Hide your keys from him. He doesn't have his driver's license yet.
Be careful with those eggs. You'll break them
Go easy on your jacket.
He threw the sausage on the snow (to cool) after he roasted it.
Let's dance for the new dancer entering for the first time.
The lazy one is pretending to work.
He tipped over the ketlle when he accidentally hit it.
The hide hung there too long -- that's the reason why it rotted.
All of a sudden my daughter went home.
My husband just up and left. I don't know where he's going.
I've been cutting pulp in the bush all winter long.
When we were cutting wood last winter, we took a lot of jack pine out of that grove.
What are you holding? (in cards)
He's been really bothered since he lost his friend.
We lost three boys in the war abroad. They never came back.
They liked the huge cornfield they saw.
He cut up the fish to smoke for nameteg.
How is he/she growing?
You should tell your children about how they should respect things so they can have healthy and good  lives.
I speak just a little bit of Ojibwe.
If you're going to be gone for a while, leave some money for your wife.
Tie your snowshoe straps tighter.
It's going to rain all day today. It won't be until tomorrow that we'll plant our garden.
Untie your snowshoe strap.
He was the last one in the boat. But he should have untied the boat first before he got in.
The cartridge fits well into the rifle.
The pole where the flag flies is pretty tall.
My mother sugared off when she made sugar and made sugar cakes.
How much rice so you want?
How many of them are there standing?
Their tracks come off the water at the rocky point.
He got lonesome for his dad so went and looked for him.
Put your bag right in the middle of the canoe.
Do you know how to talk Ojibwe?
He's barely able to lift that sack of potatoes.
There was barely enough frybread.
He's barely alive having been in a serious accident.
He went to drag in the trees that blew down.
The kid's hands were dirty and they were told to wash their hands.
He accidentally hit the jug and that's how he broke it.
Somebody picked up that shell that was lying here.
He lowered the pail down into the well.
Don't touch that bug.
He's working at the sawmill.
It's pretty well known already who is going to win the leadership.
He came in singing. Maybe the baseball players won the game.
What's that rope like?
Where does he smoke his meat?
Yesterday when the snow was moist, my dad made the trail. Today it is well-packed down.
If there are ripples in the sky in the winter, there will soon be ripples of snow on the ice.
It took us three days to cut wood. My son helped me.
When the snow is high, a moose frequents one place.
Cut out the pattern for how big you want your moccasins to be.
How big is it (something sheet-like)?
The way that little dog looks amuses me. It's kind of homely.
If he doesn't go around the deep part of the water, he'll be stuck.
The net floats fell as I tried to gather and stack them.
The draft is coming from the door there. I think the door is falling.
She came running down to the shore to greet me when I arrived.
That radiator looks good.
That young man who just left was in a hurry.
He eat junk food. That's why he has high blood pressure.
S/he already carried h/ canoe over the portage before noon.
She's hurting him by pinching him.
Rise that grows in a lake is long-grained.
I was informed ahead of time that there was a big storm coming our way yesterday.
He dished up a bowl of soup to eat.
Don't point to the reef. A strong wind will come up if you point at a reef.
He was really happy with the gift he got from the give-away.
What do you think about the resolution that's being entered.
He got up to the deer he was chasing through the water.
Grab that child. He's too close to the swimming pool.
He relies on his mother to take care of him.
Rely on your tobacco when you are asked to help at a ceremony.
My teacup is too small. I didn't get enough to drink.
He lent his house to the pow-wow visitors to sleep in.
Where is your sweat lodge set up?
He was sleeping sitting up at the table.
We got stranded across the lake yesterday because the waves were too big.
The birch bark comes off the trees easily at the beginning of summer.
Lean your snowshoes up against a tree.
Cook your bannock by the side of the fire. Stand it up facing the fire.
It got so dark because the clouds covered the moon.
It's a nice night for the Northern lights.
That person that's really hateful goes around visiting all the time.
The one girl we used to play with was terrible.
He hauled it away anyway even though they tried to stop him.
How does it (animate) smell?
If you can, cut away that little twig.
I already made my meal for when I get home this evening.
Go get ready and we'll visit that certain lady.
He miscounted how many furs he had.
Are the chairs already set up for the evernt.
Touch his knee.
Keep an eye on him. He's in the habit of stealing wood.
I wish there was some bacon grease.
Take this old stove out.
Use birch buds if you want to snare a rabbit or a partridge.
I shot four partridges with one shot while they were eating in a tree.
I think I made a bad purchase when I got those shoes. One of them is bigger.
I add carrots when I make soup.
We'll go pick berries after the leaves are dry. They are too wet now.
What are your carrying on your shoulders?
That rooster you can hear sounds kind of strange. He really sounds terrible.
The spoon he used was black.
The spoons are too small.
The rain makes the flowers open up.
Everything opens up when it rains, even the blueberries.
How big is it (something animate and string-like)?
The old wagon squeaks because it's so rusty.
I was making a fire and burnt myself, and it hurt.
While they  were driving along, they stopped short. The points were were burned out.
My pajama's that I was looking for for, I didn't know there were hanging in between other items.
They don't like my cooking. They didn't even eat it.
They children go around on top of the snow playing hide-and-seek.
Today I set out some snares and tomorrow I will check them. I'll make a rabbit stew if I snare a rabbit.
My mother called wild rice "Indian rice".
That ol' dog chased that cat up a tree.
She put the child to sleep in the cradle swing.
She bundled her baby up to put him to sleep.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
He completed the five-mile course he was told to do.
Where is he standing at?
The one hauling the wood on the sled started pulling it.
Please kick the pail on its side.
I asked him to sit a little closer.
He fell asleep there while he was trying to watch television.
There was a good movie we went and watched at our neighbors.
He's a master at working on ash to bend it to shape.
He pulled out the pine that he'd dragged here on the water.
Make your stretcher a little smaller. What you are going to stretch on it is pretty small.
The war is over and we'll have peace now.
It's real quiet on Fridays. Everyone goes to town to shop.
I fell and hurt my elbow.
He's packing the nets in a box.
The one paddling here is paddling against the wind.
That bear didn't fit when he tried to crawl into that den.
A grackle tastes very good when it's roasted over a fire.
It's easy for him to pull the load because he's coming along behind (someone else).
They say I look like my aunt, my mother's younger sister.
His son looks like him.
He looks like his older brother.
That old bread is moldy. Go throw it away.
He was too busy to attend the council meeting.
They are in session. {of council members]
He submitted his story even though they told him not to.
The bottle is full.
Let's build a fire by the rock.
A sudden whiff of ash dust arose when I spilled it over there
Check the wind first before you go across (by boat).
Let's quickly paddle across since the wind has died down.
They came and showed me that painting. It's no good. I didn't like it.
You went after that ugly boat anyway.
I was alone in the canoe when I shot the deer.
We're the only ones here.
I'm going to push the stick through. If you see it there, catch it,
What did you see on your drive here?
Let's get going. Wake him up!
Go unlock that storage shed.
Come on, why don't you people take that boat down to the lake.
What size are your mittens?
He saw somebody standing by the road.
Shut the door. Snow is blowing inside.
They came and hired my partner to go babysit.
He's really thankful for what he got at the give-away.
Stop the school bus. I want to take my children off it.
I wonder what that little boy lost.
I wonder what kind of berries these are?
Whatever that is she's eating, it looks so good.
He's singing right by the side of the house.
There was a lot of snow this winter.
There were a whole lot of farmers at the auction we went to.
Measure the four corners of your birch bark basket to make sure they're even in depth.
The blister on his foot ruptured.
Why don't you go pull up that old boat?
He is here (when he was expected to be elsewhere).
That's how he lays his head.
He wiped the floor up where the oil was dripping.
Oh wah. This one is already so big. Not too long ago she was just crawling around.
I hear a boat inland.
He's doing that just to badger me.
That's how that old lady's doing it.
I want to set up the tent before the rain gets here.
The football players very seldom hurt each each other.
What I drank and ate put me to sleep.
You can hear whoever is singing loud and clear.
I just wonder how fast those racers are going.
Me and my sister were racing and she passed me.
During the race, the officials followed.
He start driving anyway when he was told not to.
He's not holding his bow right.
The one they were going to go pick up to fight the fire ran away.
The ol' door squeaks. Please oil it.
I don't know what the one who came inside scared saw outside.
Why is he so envious of him?
The hunter is taking his dog along.
I've asked him to cut me some wood, but he hasn't yet.
He refused to cut wood for his sister.
The old lady that goes around visiting stopped by.
Go and break those branches and come fan the fish here.
He broke the pencil.
The shoes they gave me are too big.
I put pepper on my food and it tasted hot.
First feel for the trail with your foot before you drive across the ice.
[in the hospital] Did they feed you yet? | They've only fed me jello!
Put it in the front of the canoe.
The pictures are hanging on the wall.
Hang your grandfather's picture on the wall.
Somebody left their shoes under my bed.
That clock you threw got busted.
Don't forget to take your moccasins you made. The office will be closed tomorrow.
Later my daughter and her husband are going to town.
It's been half an hour now since we heard him go by.
All of a sudden the Fourth of July is here.
Pack all your stuff down to the lake that you're going to take wirh you.
He chopped up that firewood.
I told him to go hide his car and there it is way out in the open.
He's hiding the rest of the story. He's not telling all of it
Come here.
There was no one home when I came to your house last evening.
The window was open and that's why the rain came in.
He's playing with his pet in a rough way.
He harnessed his horses on the wrong side.
It's regretful that he sold his pickup.
It's regretable he gave that picture away.
Set up your lodge.
He was busy talking to his father when he turned around and noticed his wife was gone.
Peel that stick.
Break off the ends of boughs from the fir when you make bedding (in a lodge).
They get their water over at the flowing well.
He helped his father when they were cutting firewood.
He carved the knockers too pointed.
I'm fighting to keep my land.
I shot a beaver under the water.
They laughed at my cousnin when his old lady over-powered him.
I dried some berries the summer before last.
She gasped when I told her the condition of her father.
He started the porch he's building.
He toasted the bread he wanted to eat.
Who's going to make the toast.? We've got ten people to feed out there.
The funeral for the deceased is tomorrow.
He's brushing the snow off.
You should brush the snow off your coat.
He started to work on what he was asked to do the other day.
They started to work on the addition they're building.
I can't reach it because I'm too short.
How high is your blood pressure?
What size is it? How Big is it?
We're going to have a tough time cutting down trees today because the wind is too strong.
How doe she handle her saw when she's taking a tree down? Does she tilt it sideways?
If the sky is red underneath the sun in the winter time, warm days are ahead of us.
Winter before last I set nets under the ice.
Use scissors to cut out birch bark.
My scissors are dull.
The driver was late -- that's why they sent him home.
You're late. The person who wanted you to come over had his feast yesterday.
The ones left behind were late.
I didn't have time to go get it.
Be careful where you drive your skidoo. The rocks are coming out of the melting snow.
She's fighting to keep her job.
I went into the flower shop. It smelled good inside.
Those flowers you brought me smell good," the woman told her husband.
How old is he/she?
How old is your mother by now?
You'd better come in. That big rain cloud is upon us.
If a stormy south wind blows in, it will be warm.
This morning I got up right away when I heard a knock on the door.
What the heck, that child don't even listen.
Go send off that letter I wrote yesterday.
When they set those cards up nicely, he came along and messed them all up.
Just let the canoe down on a rope because the ruffles of the current are too big.
Move your car out of the way.! You're in my parking spot.
Reach for that pail over there.
Soon you will see a gaggle of geese going by.
It was cold enough for him to light his stove.
Hang the food you are cooking in the middle of the fire.
Set your soup off the fire before it burns to the pan.
He was thinking too fast. That's the reason he forget why he came here.
I ate cake when I had my birthday.
She made the cake she baked thick.
Pick those raspberries.
How is s/he dressed?
The cat running up the tree fell off.
How does he use it?
The dog is under the table barking.
Are you well?
Were they at the meeting too?
The one that sat up all night has red eyes.
She was in need so she asked for the commodities.
Empty out the pail.
The pillow burst open.
I tried asking for a lot of money.
I'm putting the soup into a bowl to eat.
Stir up your soup before it burns to the pan.
He gets chilled easily as he ages.
That child made a mess when he upset his dish.
I don't fit the shoes I bought because they're too small.
There were many holes in the tire he patched up
His watch is running slow.
Sit quietly and listen!
She wrapped up her baby and put her to sleep. When she woke up, she unwrapped her.
He pretended to laugh when someone told him his old wife had remarried.
He's working at making the roach right now.
He knew where he was when he finally noticed that low mountain.
If he's always got a headache, don't give him his medicine.
Why don't you go downhill to the store and get me some snuff.
He's wondering where his son is. He just now missed him.
We missed each other. I misunderstood him about where he was going to wait for me.
She is testing him to see how fast he can run.
I accomplished the task I was assigned anyway, even though it was hard.
Even though he told him many a time, he still didn't understand.
The one who was drunk all night long is pretty hung-over and dry.
What you're looking for must be under the snow.
The firewood is under the snow.
Now he wants it!
Look, that girl is just cute -- like a little doll.
Here it is.
How many are there?
How much sugar is there?
He dug up his potatoes.
My grandmother is frying potatoes.
When I fry potatoes, I add onions.
He's gathering up his potatoes.
I was so sleepy I lay down to go to sleep.
She is always able to make good money.
He was able to get his wife to accompany him to the meeting.
He follows the sound of the rapids.
In the spring you hear water flowing all over.
Bring all those clothes here and put them in the middle of the floor.
I bought a wagon from him.
The liquid drained out of the radiator because it had a hole in it.
Make the door on that shed bigger.
When do you want to get another car?
I'm going to try to drive in the dark anyway.
I'm going to ask my boss for a raise.
I'm still going to go gamble.
I guess I'll ask him again.
What kind of life does he lead?
Can you boil that fish?
I'm boiling beans.
That dog is growling. There must be somebody out there he hears.
Are these your books.
He hunched over when he snuck up on the ducks.
I never played with bugs.
The reason why he bought that radio is because he liked the tone of it.
Cut a long piece of rope to make a swing with.
Is it your turn to go help with the haying?
My brother worked there all winter but now he's not working.
I'm indoors all winter.
Your reputation is kind of goofy. You try to hold that seat you were elected to in the last election.
When there's a hailstorm, you should cover your car with a blanket so it doesn't get dented.
My old car comes from about ten years ago.
Where is s/he climbing to?
Check for cars before back out.
I took a ride on the ferris wheel with my daughter.
I looked after the baby when his mother went shopping.
I chased my dog who had my hat in his mouth.
My dog sniffed around for what came into the yard last night.
It's been smoky all day. I think there's a forest fire somewhere.
If your snare wire is too stiff, heat it red-hot for five minutes so you can bend it over.
The engine is knocking on my car and I think it's going to throw a rod.
The sun is setting.
Of course I can make it.
She dances with a shawl.
That young lady is a fast shawl dancer.
I watch television and I see real fat people on there.
The buckskin is really large. I wonder just how big that buck must have been.
Straighten the picture that's hanging crooked.
Don't jump over (a fence) with your gun.
He accidentally cut the one standing close to him.
They crowned my nephew the prince of the celebration during the Fourth of July.
It's easy for the boy to ask his grandpa for some coins.
How are you walking?
Why don't you kick those sticks off the pickup?
She's cooling off the eggs she boiled this morning with the snow.
I told him to go home and sure enough he did leave for home.
Cut out what you traced on it.
What can I use to cut out the basket?
The current moon is really full.
It's almost noon so we'll eat.
Pretty soon now she should have the baby she's carrying.
You can use  an awl to make a hole in something.
That rope is too big. We can't use it.
I use a frying pan to fry the bread.
Take it away somewhere for him.
They took turns rowing the boat across the lake.
I went and got birch bark from the middle of the island.
You can see an eagle's nest at the middle of the island.
Pretty soon we'll come up to where that stream flows downhill.
she got the the place where she's going to set traps.
He is approaching senior citizen status.
My mother overcooked her bannock.
My mother used to use a birch bark basket when she put away the maple sugar.
Put it in the birch bark makak.
I started to put the harness on my horse.
I helped my brother-in-law when he processed wild rice. I parched the rice.
Melt lead. Carve a hollow in a board. Pour the lead you've melted in there (to make buckshot).
He'll get hired again if he does a good job.
He does a real good job; that's the reason why I hired him.
That warrior did a great job of imitating the sound of the bald eagle.
You can sleep under the canoe when it rains
I put it together but it fell apart.
Listen to the sound of the rain.
The baby is crying all the time. I think it's sick.
My son went to the hospital to donate his blood.
The blood is dripping.
When the rain is over, the earth gets soft. That's when the worms come out.
You can look for wiigob wherever there are low trees, especially where there is wet ground.
The one who was hired to go pick up the material is hauling it by now.
They went and put a hole in the dam on the river that goes by here.
What the heck!
What the heck is happening?
What the heck's happening?
Goodness, the way he looks!
The way she dresses!
What's wrong with him?
Why in the hell is this happening?
The waves come here.
Dye your hair.
I'm not going anywhere today.
She was drying her shawl so she hung it out.
How much do you weigh? | I weigh two hundred and ten pounds.
He joined in the fight too.
I was chosen to introduce the resolution.
The ravens make a lot of noise when they caw.
The girls who are dancing have nice braids.
She's getting better and better every day.
They eat traditional food so that's why they're are still healthy.
His breathing is good. I think he's getting better.
You can sleep on the floor.
He's throwing the rabbits he snared right on the floor.
I lent him my car and he went and wrecked it.
If you pass it, just go ahead and leave it behind.
He left his briefcase on purpose because he's going to go from there to the big city.
Pick up the tools and put them away.
As we'll be going a long ways, carry your child on your back.
Feed your children right!
Set out the dishes. We're ready to eat.
He's setting the table for the meal.
will not hire that person to work on it because he does crazy things.
They're going to have a big celebration again during the Fourth of July.
He went and bought some stuff for the festivities.
He's not telling about everything that happened.
Did you hear what happened in the big city?
The towel is dirty.
Hit it far.
Where is the wind from?
Now where did I put my glasses?
I put my bundle away in the drawer.
He packed his clothes wrong into that satchel.
Let's get set up where we're going to skin our animals.
Sharpen your knife before you start skinning.
The young man tipped over close to shore while paddling in.
How are you going to braid my hair before we go to the pow-wow?
The moccasin bottom I glued on came off.
They told us not to go out on the lake because it was too stormy.
It (a road or trail) goes over there.
The mud turtles crawl onto land when its sunny.
He took away the axe his child was playing with.
The smoke is coming from the west.
Where is the smoke from?
I laughed at myself when I noticed I had my shoes on the wrong feet.
Hurry up and finish that blanket.
I put a lining in the blanket that I'm going to use.
The doctor was pressing on the stomach of the one who was constipated.
How did he sound?
Anyone can tell it's a mallard duck by its sound.
Don't eat greasy things. That's going to give you heartburn.
If your paddle is small, you'll break it going against the current.
We had to portage four times coming up against the current.
There's a tree at the end of the road.
How does that fish taste?
Stick your axe upright before it gets covered by snow.
If you get a small-sized deer, it will be soft. The meat will be tender.
I can't pull it out. Please raise your butt [off it].
I can't sleep.
Clean your glasses.
He marked where he went into the thicket so he wouldn't get lost.
I looked for blueberries in the brush.
That old man is rowing around on a calm day.
Even though it was calm now it's starting to get windy.
I told him to go home.
He's ringing a bell for it. "Come on cat, come home."
My son ate four times.
When I threaded the needle, I tied the thread off.
My daughter didn't fit the shoes she tried on.
Put your knife in the case before you cut your hand on it.
He fell in because he missed when he tried to push the boat out with his pole.
Where is it flowing from?
You'd better feed him. This person is turning kind of pale on us.
I'm going to wash my feet before I soak them in the basin.
The one who went shopping is unloading there. He bought lots.
If s/he looks for work, s/he'll find it.
A marten jumps form one tree to another looking for food.
That guy pulling didn't have any sense -- that's why he strained his back.
The one going by hauling the boats took them from the point.
He had a flat tire so that's why he got here late.
He chased the big buck down.
You won't be able to hold him back. He wants to go back where he came from because something happened over there.
How is the wind?
I think my grandfather won't be able (to walk) soon. The doctor told him he has arthritis.
How long are your shoelaces?
The firewood is on the side of the house.
Who's got a boat?
Come on, let's go play soccer.
Put the bird feed on top of the snow. (= Feed the small birds on top of the snow.)
They finally started moving around and waking up around ten o'clock this morning.
The builder is now completing the house.
The wind is blowing hard. That's why that flag is fluttering.
He zipped up his bag before he boarded the train.
The wigwams stand close to each other.
The two kids were fighting and so then the teacher was talking to them.
It's clear now since the fog has lifted.
You should take your laundry down before the rain gets here.
Why does your dad always speak so angrily?
He got me mad so that's why I slapped him hard.
If you don't play with a ball, it will get soft.
His arm is in a cast.
Next spring when there is foliage that's when the work crew will start clearing and brushing.
The distribution is short.
Can you bring two chairs? They ran out.
She's going to take a run to the store first. The milk has run out.
The bloodclot killed him.
How high do you put your wolf snares?
He talked about his ex-wife.
The elders are eating together.
The woman I met yesterday likes to beg.
My coworker has a short car.
This Saturday I got up early.
Please go brush off that mattress.
I dropped a coin down onto the bottom (of the well).
What is the value of your word? = Are you lying?
He is gifted with the ability to comprehend all the words.
He hid his money under a rock.
He put the oranges one-by-one so they touched each other [in a line].
He was satisfied after they completely rewrote his resolution.
I'll know how to do it later.
When the rain is over, we'll go out on the lake.
The fabric you brought is too thick.
Why are you crying?
Please straighten up your bed.
Put the moose sausage you smoked in the snow (to cool it).
Someone had a dream for me to wear a jingle dress.
The stream flows to the other side of the hill.
Oh, my, that old Indian doesn't understand anything right.
A woman pushes hard for a quick childbirth.
S/he is reluctant to ask for a job.
I'm going to plant this spring.
When are you going to start putting your garden in?
I laughed at myself when I noticed I buttoned myself up crooked.
If you don't know, ask your brother.
I asked my mother when the bus would arrive.
He started chasing that person running by here.
She's checking how much money she has.
I watch television all evening.
That Norway pine standing there is real big.
I boiled some corn.
I honk the horn at him wanting to talk to him. "Come here," I say to him.
How much do you charge for a pound of wild rice?
Don't ever say anything to that man.
Heat up the iron.
I filled my canoe at noon.
The one that got off the plane is walking towards us on the dock.
The bear cubs I saw were tiny.
Let's use an ice chisel instead. Toss the axe somewhere.
My mother went looking for basswood trees. That's where she made those taps. She used a hatchet.
An ax is used when you chop a hole in the ice, or maybe a chisel.
Put it on the board.
Where is s/he riding to?
He got five partridges down when he shot. He used a shotgun.
She wants to buy some thread.
Bite off the thread.
Where are they sending it?
I monitored her diet for a while.
Make sure if the rock is slippery or not before you get off (the canoe).
in the late fall, there's wild rice.
Where is she going?
Where does it lead from?
Where did you hear that from?
Where's the wind coming from?
I know where you put it.
Where is he going to through the snow?
She's getting her daughter ready to go far way to school.
Take the deceased's clothes into the wilderness.
That boat that's going by is a long ways out.
That rain cloud that passed through here is blowing away.
Mix in baking powder when you  are going to make bannock.
Scissors get dull if you cut metal or paper.
If s/he keeps singing with that good voice, s/he will be invited to go sing somewhere (at a contest or professionally).
If your bed is too short, your feet will stick out.
Why don't you boil that meat.
What you're looking for is standing against the tree.
What's she making soup out of?
You see the one who just left here up on top of the hill.
Let's go eat on top of the hill.
He's charging $2.50 for ten pounds of potatoes.
The bill was way overdue and that's why he went after his debt.
How is it's (animate) aroma?
I probably won't marry that guy that asked me to marry him.
The leaves are turning colors.
The berries will be ripe towards the last part of the summer.
He picked out the ripe blueberries.
He moves out of the way to let the people in.
The chairman thought it was too hard and that's why he resigned.
I watched the concert from down below the stage.
I don't like pepper.
That person is really uncomfortable because it is a little too hot for him.
That man's been very quiet and depressed since his wife left him.
He over-heated and cracked the rocks he used in his sweatlodge.
All of sudden my knee swelled up.
If you push from behind for the one having trouble pulling, his toboggan will go easier.
You'll start to lose hair as you get older.
Put it [something animate] in the sack.
Come on, let's put these potatoes in your sack.
The boat builder has started.
Fold it that way.
She's shaping the paper to cut the design out for her beadwork.
The one pulling a sled load at the front has a hard time pulling.
Set the trap before you put it in the water.
How is it written?
What does that sign over there say? It there a sale?
What is her address?
So that's what that letter (or note) says
Some moose meat got stuck between my teeth when I was eating yesterday.
The aroma of the fried moose meat smells beautiful. = S/he's making a beautiful aroma frying up the moose meat.
He picked up his dish for him.
You better make the right decision.
It stopped raining at noon.
He took five of his nets down to the lake.
He's the only one that knows how to handle the horse.
The onion he bit into tasted real strong.
Who are those men who just came in?
How are you feeling?
How is he feeling today?
How are you feeling now?
I don't know where I put it.
I don't know where that old guy drove off to.
I don't know where she went.
He put a coaster under the hot cup.
Where did you get your fishing pole? | I got it at the store.
He tried out the new rod and reel he bought.
I made good use of those discarded things that I collected.
She folded her towels neatly after they were dry.
It's starting to rain now.
How much is he asking for it?
If he plays with her, his granddaughter won't get lonesome.
What did they say to you to make you quit your job?
He worked in secret even though the doctor told him not to work.
I suddenly remembered where I put the stuff I lost a long time ago.
That tree is being blown westward.
He quit when they hired him to work on that hide.
He caught up to the canoe that blew away.
There are marks in the snow of how big his feet are.
Loons fly south in the fall.
He borrowed enough money to pay for the trailer.
The old people, the grandparents, are sleeping with the baby.
My daughter's son was crying so she laid down with him.
They rushed to meet the one who was coming towards them.
I just laugh at the one who wanted to go for seconds but there was nothing left.
He likes the smell of cedar.
Flick out the rope that's under the water.
Stick some rabbit skin in your ear if you are going to go walking on a real cold day.
I dream of a being.
Take care of the old lady's ceremonial pouch.
Turn that slanted dish up straight before the soup spills.
He's in jail because he's so foolish.
I work hard at what I was told to do for my job.
Dance harder!
Where's that sound of it rooting around coming from?
A chisel is very useful in the wintertime.
Turn an otter hide fur-side out after you dry it.
I think I hear the rain coming. I'd better get up and close the windows.
Please pour some more.
She pours it (maple syrup]) into a big dish. That's where she granulated it to make sugar.
When they went home early, he made his wife rueful because she had wanted to watch the goings on.
Please go chase the children away from the truck they're climbing all over.
He named this one repeatedly.
The ones that want to warm up a little are going to where the sun is shining.
Put your things away in the dresser.
Gather up your toys and put them away.
I'm wrapping the books to give them away.
It was so hot I almost died of thirst.
Where the hell does he go all the time when he goes sliding?
The turn of events is amazing
The hunters' jackets are red.
We had to get off in a hurry at the reef because our canoe was leaking. First thing, we patched it with pitch.
I hired someone to take my boat over there to get it worked on.
Throw those rocks out of the path.
You can hear the clicking when they lock the door.
It shines straight that way.
I was told to go home quickly.
Hurry up and finish your homework.
Those people getting ready are busy because the priest is coming to see them.
I can hear some ducks on the other end of this portage.
Where is that shot coming from? | It's coming from over the portage.
He carefully cut the fat away from the meat.
Oh, my car quit working.
Oops, the moose already got out of the water (and is gone).
He broke the table when he sat on it.
The birch bark tray that was sitting on the table tipped over.
The baby rice tastes very good and it cooks easily.
He put that bag inside out to dry it.
He's keeping up with their speed.
It suddenly turned when a gust of wind hit it.
What are the clouds telling us?
I hate to think of going over to watch that house and staying for a week as they asked me to.
He didn't like the regulation that was introduced.
I don't like the house because it's too small. I'm not going to buy it.
Move that. Bring it over on this side.
How are you?
Don't say anything to him. That's just his nature that he can't get anything right that he's told.
She quickly brought the shivering person inside to get him warmed up.
He wanted his father to come and teach him how to make a drum.
Put in a good amount of tea (into the water)
The Ojibwe use a push pole when ricing.
The whitefish tastes good when it is boiled.
He set the beaver hide inside out.
That young man is tall.
How tall is your son? The last timeI saw him he was already getting tall,
I went to the city the other day.
I want to patch my damaged blanket.
That's the person she wanted to come and speak -- so that's why she asked him to come over.
Thank the speaker.
Those rice knockers are too long.
He brought a new one.
You might slip if you step on the dry leaves.
How big will that house he's going to build be?
That boy's nose was dirty and he was told to blow it.
This morning I went to see the office worker. She is going to help me with my request.
I'm not able to stop him from continually crying
Why are you wrapping the books?
He deliberately made his little sister cry.
Don't fight your little sibling. You're going to make h/ cry.
That string is red.
I'm listening to those twins talking to each other.
The keys are under the rock.
He misplaced his keys. He can't find them.
You can use a hacksaw to saw your padlock in half if you lose your key to it.
The portage we used was so long I had to set my canoe down and rest halfway.
See, look at this.
The one stealing the wood is hauling it from the neighborhood.
Hurry up and untie your snowshoe strap.
How far is the end of the road?
That's the way I walked when I went last night.
He won everything at the penny-ante game.
In the spring the mud turtles come ashore to lay their eggs.
The people who went to Chicago drove straight through.
I go outside and offer tobacco every morning.
How loud is he?
Here, hold this ball.
Go and sing again. You sound awesome!
He teased his brother-in-law when he saw him.
He was looking at the river flowing by.
I hope it's a nice day tomorrow. We could go partridge hunting.
Your trap is stuck.
He's already reached the age of retirement.
Put it in the pot.
He took great care in cutting straight what he was told to cut.
That cover shrank from the heat.
The one who was gone all night was working.
The queen I saw is beautiful.
The one who came and bit a piece out of the fireside bread did wrong.
If the day is short, we'll go to sleep early.
In the middle of the winter the days are very short.
What a snake does is uses its tongue to smell with.
Why don't you go thank him now.
He got the the cough medicine from the pharmacy.
I'll see you when it's New Year's.
That child is not satisified with the ice cream.
He regretted that his team lost at the hockey game.
I put the milk in the refrigerator.
He accidentally spilled the milk.
The house is really dirty.
The wood is there back of the house.
There's a north wind. The wind is bring the cold this way.
My daughter adds nuts when she makes bread.
I'm going to comb my hair first before I go to town.
The travelers will land sometime after three o'clock.
Where's that singing coming from?
How old is your daughter?
Are you going to go watch the wrestling tonight?
When are you going to get a new car?
A deer left an imprint of where it slept in the snow.
I went to the meeting alone.
He's all done carving the paddles.
I put honey in tea.
The representative who lost had been in the lead.
It's ten minutes past.
What did you cut with when you cut the hide.
The wind is from the north -- that's why it's cold.
The lake froze over when it got cold.
It's going to be real cold tomorrow.
It must be our turn to boil the sap.
Red willow has oval-shaped leaves.
Bring in the mattresses.
I picked up the gun that was sitting there.
A thrush sings towards evening.
What I've been asked to put together has all fallen into place.
Keep to a proper diet. Don't eat fatty things.
The dough that I kneaded rose [contrary to expectation].
My grandfather went outside and took a deep breath.
Wait! Let's wait for him.
How is the movie?
The sound of the train that went by here faded away.
Our pet dog gave birth. She had nine puppies.
Don't bother those pups. The mother (= the one who has them as young) is very protective.
Where is s/he hauling the rocks to?
The plane made a quick turn around.
The foam eddies around in the middle of the rapids.
How high does it (animate) hang?
The knife sticks in the ground when I throw it. There's going to be good luck.
They're going to try her to work on it.
My grandmother is frying potatoes.
These are the ones.
You''ll be lost if you misunderstand where to turn off.
I'm going to quit drinking beer.
He broke the eggs he dropped.
(Ground) coffee is brown.
He whispered to her.
Please put the dishes in the cupboard.
I am among the carpenters.
Which way is the yelling coming from?
What is the ground like?
What's that town called?
The roofer is sitting on top of the house.
I rub the frozen blueberries (in the bag) to pour a few onto my plate.
It will be extremely sweet if you put a lot of sugar on it.
I had to cut my story off when my boss came in.
Use an iron when you want to press clothes.
I'm going to go look for the ones that missed the ride.
I saw a moose going across the forested ridge.
Where is s/he dragging it?
Drive through the big culvert.
How does s/he stand?
So what do you think of what I asked you?
I guess that's what he's going to do.
Maybe we'll go there tomorrow.
Where is the wind coming from? | Oh, it must be coming from a long way away.
Go burn that tank clean
They asked us too to participate in the offering.
Ask each other where you'd like to go to pick rice.
I was hired to manage the brushing crew.
He's sitting still pondering.
Really listen to and analyze what he's saying.
He cried when he fell out of bed last night.
He sent for the bed they gave him.
I fell outside on the ground and got dirty.
Wash your granmother's hair because it's dirty.
Shove it here.
Where is he tossing it?
Don't make any noise on the canoe. You'll scare off our game.
What's that over there across the road?
I hunt beaver all spring long.
Turn the light on.
Tomorrow I will check the traps. I will take some baits along.
Are you all right? You just fell against the wall.
Where does the smoke go?
How does that old boat look that you went and saw?
That's how it looks. See!
The person who fainted a little while ago came to.
Dye his net for him.
Grease your bannock. Use butter.
Drive the dog team.
Don't bother the fighting dogs. They might accidentally bite you.
He dragged that log across the road.
How heavy is the boat?
How is it (a liquid)?
That's how the water tastes.
You can hear the pulp cutter way back in the bush.
Where is s/he dragging it for h/.
He and his brother look alike.
Pull my hand if you hear something.
Did you hear the big windstorm last night?
The cup fell from the ledge.
She dropped her cup.
I want you to come here.
Hang those two.
Where is s/he running to in flight?
They're going to use this rope, Try and cut it long anyway.
The ricers live on the other side of the island.
I gave him his gas money anyway.
That is what the doctor told him -- to be on a certain diet.
What does a beaver eat?
The fair is fun.
How much does that shawl cost?
It's a simple thing for him to change oil on his automobile.
Please bring me a cup. | This one, or this one? | Whichever.
The baby is crawling up on the chair. Go grab him before he falls.
That's where the motorboat is going along, in the middle of the river.
The boat is going along the side of the island.
Each one of these signs is short.
How is she going to cut the meat she's going to smoke?
Try to remember which way we came or we're going to get lost.
What is he talking about?
What are those things you are talking about?
You really ought to help too.
I looked after my grandchild while her mother went to town.
How big is it?
Tomorrow I'm going to go borrow some money to buy a car.
That meat is cooked well.
I've accidentally shot myself.
I'm looking for a shady spot to pick berries in.
The rabbits run on top of the snow when there is a crust on it.
He chased the bear who had come and raised caine into the woods.
Let the singers be served first.
She scooped up some soup for her grandmother so she could eat.
I've got to go cut a hole in the ice before I lead my horses down to the lake to go water them.
He's sitting there thinking and wishing it would clear up.
I went to town twice today.
Just two times.
Your car still looks new.
They're still there.
Your grandma is still sitting in the car. You should go get her.
How much does it cost?
How much does that roach cost?
When the rain stops I'm going to go outside and sit around.
Where's she picking berries?
He found a spot where he's going to pick berries tomorrow.
He kneaded and shaped the biscuits before he put them in the oven.
Oh, my son will come soon.
Oh, that's a powerful boat that just landed.
That dog is there close by.
You put it too close to the fire.
She's coming closer.
He drank too much -- that's why he was laid out.
What is her address?
He spilled it out when he tipped it on its side.
How long are h/ arms?
The one taken for a ride is really hanging on tight.
I went and got really bored just sitting in that theater because it was a bad movie.
The sweetgrass hanging in the car is nicely braided.
Apparently he saw his dad yesterday.
I guess she laughed at my letter when she read it.
He piled the boards over along the woods.
I when I drop my scissors under the table, I use my feet to get it out, to rake it out.
That young man really respects his mother-in-law.
My daughter is wearing a ring. She's going to get married.
She hit the bull's eye when target shooting.
Who died?
That pastry is real sweet.
That rice tastes bad. I wonder what kind of thing they put in there again.
You can make out rice across the river.
He's coming right behind messing up the things that were set up.
He walks backwards when he exercises.
He was in jail for a day.
We got to the crossing.
She is standing there waiting for the bus to come.
Keep an eye on your child. He might crawl out and fall off the step.
The boat sat there upside down too long -- that's why it rotted.
She made a trail to where she's going to cut the wood tomorrow.
Towards evening my mother said to us, "Go on, haul sap!"
How long are h/ legs?
Decorate your little fir tree nicely. It soon will be Christmas.
Throw your snowshoes inside. They will dry here inside.
I used to help my mother when she dried deer meat.
You don't have to help me. I can lift it to move it over.
I was being stingy with that fabric but she started cutting it up anyway.
How did you tie the deer you hung? Did you make a loop in the rope [so it will come down easily]?
It's three days now the wind has been steady -- it's not even stopped at all.
The magician made the rope appear to rise by itself.
I thnk the one who is limping has an infected blister on his foot.
The chiefs are going to assemble to talk about the law.
I tried to borrow that big miser's boat.
Knock the snow off the roof of your house before it caves in.
Please take down that deer hide that's hanging there.
Hang the swing up out of the way.
I told him to hang the swing up out of the way.
The miser pulled out his stash.
I use a comb when I comb my daughter's hair.
Wipe that kid's mouth. It's dirty.
What's h/ hair like?
He overslept when he got his new job.
What's it like outside?
He was sleepy so he lay down.
The flag ripped apart in the heavy wind.
His mother asked him where he just came from. He pointed across the lake, and said "from over there."
Don't bother him. Let him get ready.
Can you tap that tree over there?
There are two birds sitting in a tree.
I cut firewood all fall.
Foam floats along the side of the river.
If there's a west wind, there will be a storm.
I like the black pair of shoes.
The dirty old man has a filthy mouth.
The moon is a half-moon.
He was amazed at how bright the moon was last night.
I sent my son to give some bread to his sister.
My mother used an old rag when we strained that sap.
He drained out his canoe.
My daughter baked some squash.
I hid my daughter's cigarettes from her.
Don't baby him. Make him work!
Just go ahead and take it with you.
They each scoop up a lot of blueberries.
The hail sounds good hitting on top of the roof.
Fix the sled.
Where is he lugging things on his shoulder to?
Take it easier. Don't get mad at him.
The sun comes up from the east every day.
The spirits hear everything you say.
It's not going to be easy.
Grasp and hold that bow right before you pull it.
He's not good for anything because he sleeps all the time.
How is it (animate) used?
What's that vehicle doing over there at the medical building? Is that the ambulance?
You won't be able to hold him back. He wants to go back where he came from because something happened over there.
Which way are the clouds going?
There are various clouds.
He accidentally hit the window and that's how he broke it.
You should drag the trees you can't lift to the car.
Let go of his hand.
It's going to be like this all day, we're going to have rain squalls.
That boy tied up his shoes into knots and can't undo them.
Toot your horn!
Blueberries turn brownish in the late fall.
He distributed the offerings.
Go distribute those clothes they brought over.
How much does a sack of potatoes weigh?
Who turned the battery around?
An eagle looks smaller and smaller as it soars high.
It was two years ago that I last saw my younger brother.
Bake the potatoes.
Don't bake that chicken. Fry it.
There's a wood tick in the middle of his back.
He followed its trail into the den. He's going to smoke it out.
Put your snare on a rabbit trail of you want to snare one.
He broke his foot when he miss his grip and fell off the train.
How many pairs of them are there?
How do you say...
Stupid! You don’t know what you’re doing.
How full is it (the gas tank)?
I bought ice cream when I went shopping.
That's where he got the knife from, from under the log.
Go put the chair on the other side.
Run it over there to the store
I'm going to go to the drugstore to pick up my medicines.
She's getting better.
Who's got a net?
That young woman cooked a good meal.
Lie down in bed when it gets dark. That's where you have your dreams.
I'm going to cut wood this fall.
She was teary-eyed when she told how her grandmother passed away.
He hurt his little brother when he sat on him.
The rain last night made the ground cold. I think there might have been some hail with it.
He got his father mad for repeating what he said.
What color is it (animate)?
S/he chopped a lot of wood I can put on the fire all winter.
She cut the apple into smaller pieces before she ate it.
She put  the turkey they're going to have for their gathering tomorrow in the oven.
Put your beaver board so the sun will dry it.
What phase is the moon in?
How far along is the rice-picking moon?
Those roofers that were working for two days have very sore knees.
Who was elected chief?
The deer smells rotten because it was hanging up in the tree too long.
Go ahead and take one.
She gave her just enough to eat so she won't get sick from it.
What a tragic car accident!
I'm going to take my load of rice ashore because my canoe is too full.
She couldn't make grandchildren to go to bed.
Please go help my grandmother wade across.
He set the book that was blocking the way further back.
Pull harder.
A cat is sitting on the log.
Load those boxes into the car.
That's the way he tells about him.
He was able anyway to get financing to trade in his car.
That cabbage soup tastes awful. Maybe it's spoiled.
How hot is it?
Flowers open up when it is sunny.
That young woman is very proud.
Where did he get the clothes from?
Take in your laundry. It's starting to mist now.
He had a big laugh after he told the story.
I'm giving this to you to use alone.
She was making bannock while talking to her mother on the telephone.
She passed up her uncle that was running over there.
That man that was praying was given a natural gift to remember things.
Cook the hamburger.
They took that battery inside where it's warm.
I'm invited to the naming ceremony.
They're going to town and he's going along.
That's a beautiful totem pole that is standing by the door.
The bus will come soon.
Start the motor. First I'll paddle out a little bit.
Let's wait next to the island on the lee side.
He strung his net out from near the shore of the island,
What is your home like?
Wash your little brother's hands. We're eating soon.
Draw a picture of how it looks where you came from.
Offer food about your dream.
Chip the cookie in half so you can give me some.
It's on top of the rice stalk that the rice grows.
Wild rice grows in the water. And when the rice stalk comes up, the rice is on growing on the top.
Whose horse is this buckskin?
You better start telling what happened at the shooting.
My father really liked the taste of the broken rice.
Point to the item you want to buy.
Please hand me what you have in your hand.
Hand him a plate so he can dish up his own meal.
I handed the old man some tobacco.
We ran around the lake together.
Put that old box under the table.
How deep is the snow this winter?
The rhubarb grows fast.
If s/he thaws out the bread, we'll make some toast.
A marten jumps form one tree to another looking for food.
He mistook somebody. He thought maybe it was his brother.
My mother used to cook raccoon tender.
The reason why this one is here is because he can't find a job.
This is the one I'm talking about.
This is my oldest child.
Where does he chase him?
She might be here tomorrow.
Put your trap in the middle of the burrow.
I finally recognized that tall guy dancing by. Last time I saw him he was just a short guy.
Do what she does.
I asked my mate to go along with me to the fair.
S/he already took the laundry down (off the line).
What kind of game are they playing?
The rice is so thick. It's hard to paddle the canoe.
I'm putting down greenwood (on the fire).
I'm digging up potatoes.
He's telling about the blueberries across the ravine.
Tell something about how it looks where the one you are sitting with came from.
He was pestering him so he left.
What do you add to your own oatmeal.
She's pulling her net out of the water to dry it.
You use scissors  to cut something straight.
He didn't let him in even though he was knocking.
The one that choked is coughing hard now. He had a close call.
The deer sleep under the boughs in the winter.
That child is naturally scared of the night.
Look for some firewood before dark or else we will be cold tonight.
He missed his grip -- that's why he fell out of the boat.
We'll camp on the island. It's nice and breezy here in the summertime.
Try to find it.
He found the hole where the gophers live.
I can't find the document. I think somebody put it someplace else.
I misunderstood the speaker who talked about mallards.
The boughs are turning brown because there's been hardly any rain lately. The sun is very hot.
If he dances that way he mocks the other dancers.
He was standing too close --  that's why his pants caught on fire.
I fell from a tree and hurt my arm.
A whole lot of bats come flying out of that cave.
He watched the plane go by there for a long time until it disappeared from view.
The ground is almost bare.
The rainwater that was in the tank was frozen solid.
I'm going to go along with him when he goes fishing.
Fresh young rice is green in color.
The early rice tastes very good and it also cooks faster.
She feeds her pet well. She feeds it cat food.
He missed his wrench but I heard it drop down below.
We lived out on the prairies for eight years.
The linesman began to climb the pole to go fix the electric cable.
I cut out a pair of mitts for her, but she is going to sew them herself.
Do you put brown sugar in your own oatmeal? | No, I put salt in.
There on both sides of the river is where they camped.
That's how much sugar there is.
My car is long.
My relatives used to help me when I had no food to eat.
Damn! I think my car's engine block cracked. It was really cold last night.
Go get your money before the bank closes.
I can't seem to put money away in the bank.
That boiled cabbage spoils easily.
I want to go fishing on the other side of the island.
I heard the hunter's gun shot.
Don't bother that person. You will distract him while he's carving.
He burns are really painful.
My heart was aching when we separated.
The young men whistled at the girl.
They're still going with each other even though they are divorced.
My daughter's little son was crying so she laid down with him.
He's sleeping with his grandfather.
Did they say something to you?
Maybe I don't know anything.
My car got cooled off. It won't start.
How long will we have to wait? A half-hour?
She came and told us there were berries.
He dragged that satchel from the other room.
He saved five walleyes.
He gave instructions to the five men he hired.
Which way does it sound like the rain is going?
He sings any old way when he sings about the legendary beings,
When the beaver thaws, I'll make a stew out of it.
The whole bunch of them are coming in to eat. It's a free meal today.
I have some night crawlers.
We've got an angora cat.
The snow is really blowing. You can't even see across the lake at all.
Those kids were climbing on the table.
I don't eat meat.
The meat was cooked tender.
I'm going to freeze the meat I got.
My mother is sitting by the car. I think she's awaiting for somebody.
Don't jump over (a fence) with your gun. You might accidentally shoot someone.
I think his voice in changing and that's why he doesn't sound right.
He's got a black face, that one with filthy face.
That girl had a dirty face when she went to town. She went with her mother.
It took us about two hours to look for the child who was misisng.
Look for one (a tree) with small leaves.
I went down to the lake five times to look for the children.
I reminded my son to buy bread.
You should remind her of her spirit name.
I counseled those young people that are just starting to work.
I'm giving the child a cookie.
The leaves blew off when it got real windy the other day.
He's straightening out his pipe that's sitting there.
Where's that beaver the sound of that chewing coming from? | It's coming from across the lake.
I'm going to thaw the meat before I cook it.
How big is it (something stick-like)?
The watch shattered when it fell.
She's crying in giving birth.
Bait your trap.
Go and hug your old boy friend.
Please give me some money.
My soup is done cooking.
He made room in the shed to store stuff.
That big tree was too big to fit on the sawmill to get ripped.
There is a red moon.
He was stingy with his canoe. He finally agreed to let him use it.
I'm thinking about my granddaughter who is going to school far away. Maybe I'll give her a call this evening.
I'm five feet ten inches tall.
Where are the forest fires burning?
There's a dance out in the field.
Go get your child (on your back).
Eat the chicken secretly.
Go inside and get a glass of water.
The geese are gathering now getting ready to leave.
Use a template to cut out what you going to make.
He's driving his grandfather to town.
Why is your daughter always so angry?
If there is a maple grove there, we'll boil sap.
When is the feast?
Count how many boxes there are.
Shoot, I will not be able to go watch what's going to go on because I am broke.
Watch very carefully now. That's how you're going to know what to do.
Use the comb to comb h/ hair.
How wide a boat is it?
We stopped twice to snack while walking here.
He pulls up the bucket of water at the well.
That kid walked through the mud and his feet got dirty.
I usually see them (worms) in the mud when the rain is over.
That child's been crying a long time. You better go see.
I got caught stealing a car. That's why I'm sitting here in jail.
There have been so many motorboats running all day!
Take good care of the island we inhabit.
Where does the road end?
If she missed the turn, she'll be late getting there where she is needed.
Don't play with the fire. You'll wet the bed. [a warning to children]
How thick is the ice? = "How far is it frozen?"
The jack broke -- that's the reason the car came down when I tried to jack it up.
I'll be at your (pl.) place towards daylight
The young lady lost her lipstick.
Whenthe trees have leaves the size of a beaver's ear, that's when we have the (spring) ceremony.
My mother used wood taps when she tapped trees.
How is he making that drum?
That shot is too small.
When are you going to start work tomorrow?
It's a very nice night. The moonlight is bright.
The string broke on that kite and it blew away.
Let the dog out!
The young man who is going to go hunting went into the woods.
He didn't like the smell of the person who farted.
That young man is away getting firewood.
He helped his son when they fought him.
She went and put her net under the ice.
You can hear the sap being boiled by the sugar maker.
He put in some pork when he ground up the moose meat.
What are you sellling?
What is she playing with?
He cut the paper.
Peel the bark off the basswood.
You can find red willow in the same place that you get basswood bark from.
We'll play the dish game after noon.
Is the moose you shot still breathing?
Moose tastes different.
You should try to leave one beaver in every beaver house so more will come.
We were coming from way out in the lake when the gas line plugged up on the outboard motor.
It doesn't look like it will work out.
I'll drink another half-cup of coffee before I begin work.
He was gifted food. He caught a rabbit last night.
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
He answers his grandma's requests right away.
Please cook the cabbage.
Go put the chair in the corner.
He caught the canoe before it blew out into the lake.
Peel the bark off the red willow (osier) so it will be white.
He went and took some basswood bark off the tree he wanted to use.
Take good care of those animals they left behind.
I cut firewood all fall.
A beaver eats by the river.
A tree is being tapped.
Wait until tomorrow  and I'll come and get you then.
I am coming to get you at 10 o'clock.
And she [my mother] called maple sugar "Indian sugar."
He's washing the windows.
He drove his woman away -- that's why she left him.
I went to buy a radio.
Now that car is beginning to move that's going to be rolling down the hill.
That old man with the bad breath finally brushed his teeth.
He went around and took the signs down he posted this morning.
The crying child is heard from the other room.
If they're always fighting, they'll be separating soon.
The boy told the dogs to fight.
My grandson is gone to the war.
You can see an eagle sitting across the river.
It's going to be herd for the dependents because they're cutting off some of their benefits.
She is crying from hearing something sad from someone.
Turn that pillowcase inside out.
Ants sleep under rocks.
The builders worked fast.
I can't bend that metal because it's too strong.
Be wary of him. Don't be too friendly with him because he is very temperamental.
He is able to work.
I don’t think he’s able to do the dancing on the rice.
I won't be able to go because I don't have much money.
I remember what they used to tell me.
The sled won't go. I think it's too iced up.
Cook a rutabaga with it.
He quit working before they finished it.
Those people paddling off over there are going to go ricing.
Use  an awl to pierce something to make a hole in it.
The drunk was thrown out.
His coffee is strong.
How big is it (something animate and sheet-like)?
My sewing room is the other room.
She's drying meat.
Dry your socks before you put them on.
He keeps his pace with them as they run.
Okay, pick up the tobacco.
Who has a drum?
Portage all of the beavers.
Get the water out of your canoe before tonight. Maybe (the lake) will freeze up.
Why don't you take and throw that old cat off the car.
When the men are talking together, they talk real dirty.
You should cuddle the child crying from being sick.
How does it taste?
Whats your name?
A trapper feeds himself well.
She sent the jacket to him that he'd asked her for.
The net board is split. It's no good any more.
I didn't like it when he told me to lie down in the middle.
It is forbidden to mistreat dogs.
The one eating was put off by her going and taking his plate away from him.
Zip up your coat.
Put it here!
Where is she paddling to?
He went around and pulled down the signs he posted this morning.
My husband just up and left. I don't know  where he's going.
How high have you filled it? / I've almost got it full now.
Whose pail is that?
That campsite you're talking about is a long ways from here.
My car is in (the garage).
The dancer is copying while he's trying the fancy footwork.
How tall are you?
How do you cook?
My grandson was teasing that boy and finally he started fighting him.
He finally fell.
That tree is black.
She smoked the beaver that she had trapped.
The creek is starting to flow
The one who borrowed the flour from me only left half a bag.
Where does it flow to?
Where was the picture taken of him with the chief?
While he was making his speech he just stopped abruptly.
Let's fish by the rapids.
He picked up the offering.
Put it in her drawer.
There is an eclipse of the moon.
The old lady was having a hard time trying to thread the needle.
The head band I beaded looks bad,
Go to try to interest your uncle.
He accidentally spilled his tea on top of the bed.
What you're looking for is on the lower level.
He's down below.
Go get some green wood (by sled).
My daughter likes the young man she met.
It's dangerous to go out on the ice because it's too thin.
How drunk is he?
She's sitting herself down to read the newspaper.
That song he's singing sounds real good.
Dreams are very important.
So that's what happened.
He accidentally hit the boy when he threw the ball.
My stew boiled dry. I forgot to fill it back up (with some water).
He dyed his net so it wouldn't be so bright and flashy.
She's asking me to write for her and fill out the application for the job she's after.
Where is his home? / Where does he live?
Don't shoot a cow moose in the rutting season.
Let them go set nets first.
It's their turn to go fetch the water.
I'll be back around four o'clock.
Someone is calling for you. (as you hand the phone to someone)
Pull something up for him where he can sit.
I ran out of toilet paper. I went and bought some when I went shopping.
Add some green logs in here (to the other wood).
He's holding up the ladder.
It won't fit because it's too long.
Tomorrow I'm going to wake up early at daybreak.
Slap him on the head if he doesn't listen.
He wakes up real early.
File the nail in half if it is too long.
If you want to dry something, put it in the dryer.
He couldn't get used to the rotting smell there even though he tried
The one who owes at the store just emerged.
I saw a skinny dipper from far away.
The water was halfway up his leg as he waded across.
We'll see it if something (an animal) crosses the water.
Close the door on that shed.
Spread the news around about what happened.
He's working on his nets. He's mending them.
I wonder if he understood what I wrote him about.
My wife straightened up the place after the party was over.
Watch and analyze what she's doing.
I think some of the spark plugs are burning out and that's why the car doesn't run right.
Only some of them went swimming in the evening.
How is he hanging it?
I called the children to come and play.
Don't call on him. He only knows bad medicine.
We'll work on it later.
He sent in the proposal yesterday.
The person who took my car made things very difficut for me.
The teacher makes a lot of money.
A dog sheds (its fine fur) in the spring. It has a real thin coat in the summer.
How long is it (something of finished wood)?
S/he peeling that orange.
Call the moose.
Let's go down the rapids on the side.
Perhaps we'll go play at the casino  this evening.
He's taking good care for his grandfather.
He couldn't convince them to hire him.
How many are there of them?
That's how much flour there is.
Go and braid that person's hair, the one that's getting ready to go dance.
Where does the river flow to?
That's where the river flowed near the road.
It's dirty inside the box.
He's wishing you'd feed him.
What are you smoking? There's smoke coming from your smokehouse (wigwam).
How loud is the train that's coming.
We went to the dump grounds. The smell finally dissapated after we left.
There's too many ticks this summer.
We'll eat in five minutes.
I think there's something the matter with our dog. He's losing his hair.
What's h/ illness?
And she used a birch bark sap bucket to put there where the tree was running with sap.
The one new at snaring hung his snare the wrong way.
His arm is in a sling.
What time is it (clock time)?
Will you come and get me (by boat) here at the stream?
He retrieved that guy whose motor broke down (out in the lake).
How much flour is there?
Go shake out that blanket.
He’s making a net right away.
That person who smudged the place this morning really left a good aroma.
He's getting his snowshoes made before he goes trapping.
The baby is crying because s/he is hungry.
The rice is in the milky stage.
My garden is growing really good.
Toss it in the mailbox.
Take a whiff of this!
It didn't fit because he cut too much.
He too asked to be put on the list.
What are you making?
What do you want?
He arrived with news. "The Anishinaabeg will be having a mid-winter powow."
Turn on the cold water.
That log is drifting along on top of the water.
Put those chairs in a circle.
Bizhikiins acts smart.
Swallow your medicine.
Who keeps farting?
Quiet, Listen. The cat's pissing.
Where does he get the firewood?
That's where the old car stalled, in the middle of the road.
When I bought shoes, one looked different.
He turned the bolt to tighten it.
They told me a little while ago that my mum was sick.
Clear this chair so our guest can sit down
It's on top of the rice stalk that the rice grows.
He told me to move that box out of the way.
Tell him to go home.
The pie-maker is creating a good aroma.
I finished my snowshoes. I'm going to go around checking my snares tomorrow.
Where's he poleing to?
Where is s/he taking the load (pulling a sled)?
The snow gets sharp and prickly from the sun in the spring.
She has a scar on her left hand.
I dreamt of her being the keeper of a hand drum.
I straightened up my (tilted) bowl up before the soup spilled out.
He gave up even though he's been asked to go along with them when they were going to go to the city.
The gunny sack I was using split open.
He thought his blanket would fade in the sun so that's why he put it in the shade.
He used something to go after the paper that was floating in the water.
What shall we go and get (in the boat)?
Tighten up your motor on your boat.
How big is it (something string-like)?
She's eating the bannock outside, the one she made there outside.
My son sent me some money.
I put it somewhere, but I don't know where.
I told him to make his bedroom smell good -- and he intentionally farted.
The sign that was glued on there came off.
The story teller is so clear. = S/he tells h/ story so clearly.
They went too fast around that turn -- that's why they tipped.
Put the tobacco right in the middle of her palm when you honor her.
Pick up a brown leaf.
The apple tree standing there is short.
That net board is too short for me to use.
Where's it flying?
I hope the Native language will carry on.
He's wishing his loan would go through at the bank.
What color it it?
I saw him with his arm around her waist.
You live too far away for me to go with you. [song]
How is its aroma?
The smell is going towards that group of people eating,
Buying a new vehicle made me broke.
Where are you paddling to?
Ill be home all morning tomorrow.
A fan is squeaking.
I gave her a ride here in my car.
That place where we went has a name, but I don't remember what it is.
Where's it coming from?
That old dog chewed up the blanket that was hanging out there.
Take your time in making it.
Make it the same way you made the other one.
If it is picked up, take it away.
It's so caring the way she says it.
The chickadee landed there.
How far does it shine?
How big is it?
How big is that ax?
Please eat the tomatoes.
Lean your baby's cradle board up against the wall so s/he can see what you're doing.
How high is it (something mineral)?
What does s/he think about h/?
She offered her child for a naming ceremony.
The chairman isn't managing well.
I laughed at myself when I noticed that my socks didn't match.
I put the knives on the table.
I think it's going to be a nice day today.
He's paring an apple.
That old lady draws her water from the lake.
Peel this much of the potatoes. I want to cook them.
He named that tree.
In the evening I'll turn all of them (hides) fur side out so they will dry properly.
Put your snowshoes under the sled.
Don't tease your old lady.
He's starting to lay off bothering her all the time.
Boy! There's a lot of snow this year.
I sit facing west.
Unravel your snowshoes so you can put new lacing on them.
He took home the bed they gave him.
Where's she following the trail to?
Load your gun.
He's picking raspberries.
There is a lot of silence now since he passed on.
If there's a riot, go somewhere else.
Get the snow down off your house.
I get chilled in a cold rain.
Turn on that flashlight.
He got burnt because he couldn't get out because of the smoke.
Don't bake that chicken. Fry it.
The boy ate up all the chicken.
The old man wakes everybody too early by going around visiting.
Rub the frozen pemmican (in the bag) to pour some out into your pot.
Return the sugar they lent you.
The woodchuck digs a hole in the ground so he enter his home.
Put something there for the kitty to eat.
I told you not to hit the dog and you went ahead and hit him anyway.
Shine a light on it here.
That tire is rolling.
Her snowshoe tracks come from across the river.
Raindrops are falling. I think it's going to start raining.
That table is dirty.
Take good care of that token or you might lose it.
The fall before last I made my snowshoes.
She puts bear grease in her soup.
The one who had convulsions this morning really scared us.
How many times?
I'm salting the meat.
She ran away from her husband because he wanted to fight her.
He's the one who knows who to operate the net setting board.
They found the young woman that was lost. She's doing okay.
Don't laugh at how it looks.
Where do h/ tracks go?
