The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
The manitous coming are continuously flashing lightning
He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
He drove across the high bridge.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
The boy worked around the neighborhood.
I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
Please clear off the platform for my son-in-law to set down the deer he's bring in on his back.
He's working on the deer he shot.
He's looking for the deer he wounded.
It wiggles up and down as it moves around.
Don't run with your gun.
That old cat has got a mouse in her mouth.
The car screeches going by on the road.
I drank some pop.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Lay the yardstick here.
It looks like this one got shiny-faced. Are you drinking?
Pull the window open.
I brought one gallon of gas.
About four-thirty in the morning it starts to get light.
It's getting dark but it is still light in the living room.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
When they crossed the stream, they waded through the water.
He put the board across the crack in the ice -- that's how he got across.
Mix the oil into the gas.
He is operating the sawmill.
Where is the voting going to take place? | I think it's in the main building.
The ice comes up on shore when it drifts around in the spring.
Let's eat across from the doorway,
Rabbits chewed the sticks bare. We'll set our snares here.
There is a draft here.
He changed the position of the hide. He turned it over on its back.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
The lightning hit the ground.
Always keep your gas can full.
That car I bought has a lot of problems.
I'm so sick I'm just hurting.
He went to the chicken coop to gather up the eggs.
He turned around the glass pane they had set.
The torchers were gone all night.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
We'll go shining later because it's too early in the night.
He is also spit-shining his shoes.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
She tried waving his arms at the driver to stop him.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
The robin is the spirit bird that gave (my grandmother) my name.
