The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
The car screeches going by on the road.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Mix the oil into the gas.
You are on the list too.
There's a lot of animals in the woods. You too should go hunting.
It's pretty still outside. There's no wind blowing.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
There's somebody shooting on the other side of the rapids.
Put the tobacco in the pipe.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
They spotted a bear in the light when they cast a light in that direction.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
Work with that man working over there.
I met my grandfather halfway down the lake.
Come here, my grandmother said to me.
There's a leak in the middle of the tent.
I heard that he come out of the hospital two nights ago.
A wood tick bit him in the middle of the chest.
He tracked his father toward the west.
Take him in that direction.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
Dry your socks near the stove.
There's a bed next to the wall.
Set your trap for a beaver on its trail.
He came out carrying his little son on his back in a cradle board.
I have money in my wallet
A cat is sleeping on the bed.
I saw a teenagers smoking in the alley.
He's indicating that the wind is from the north.
Don't put your it here on on the top of the roof. Your cup might get blown down.
He thinks it's kind of easy for him to get that big buck I saw out in the woods
He hit his (golf)ball right out on a field of snow
The canoe that blew ashore came from the point
Cold winds blow from the north.
He jumped out of the rice boat too soon and that's why it tipped over.
I want to work in the sawmill this winter.
Carry it upstairs.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
We went to the dance Sunday and that's where we camped.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
Put on your rubber boots. The grass outside is wet.
Don't take out all the money if you go to the bank. Leave me some!
Just go ahead. We'll catch up to you anyway.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
Come over here
He is unable to pull the rope. Maybe it's frozen to the ground.
He's going to move further away tomorrow.
Carry your canoe on top of your car.
Put it in your pocket.
You can hear him along the shore chopping and shaping paddles.
He spread out his pants on top of a rock to dry them.
Kick your shoes under the bed.
He stands at the end of the dock when he's fishing.
She put a stone in her mouth. [of a child]
Stand on the chair!
I hang the kettle close to the fire when I make soup.
He's hoeing his corn in the garden.
Set up your trap in the middle of the overflow.
The mosquito crawled in his ear.
Watch it from here.
Put your bannock on top of the table.
Please turn on the air conditioner because it is hot here inside before grandma gets dizzy from the heat.
He found signs that his dog must have been eating there. There were marks.
Spread it there on the rock to dry.
Paddle this way.
He looked underneath for his trousers.
A beaver is heard rippling the water inside the lodge
I usually put my shoes under the bed.
That boy is sitting on top of the house.
He fell off the roof.
She's wearing rings on both hands.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
They hauled stones from way off in the woods to use for the sweat lodge.
A beaver can be heard chewing from across the lake.
This one was her first partner.
Let's go stay under the bridge. [in a canoe]
They sent my son overseas to go fight.
She chased him from the well.
Hang your snare under the boughs.
Follow what's printed on the paper.
He secretly wooed his girlfriend during the ceremony.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
Go over there quickly.
The moose is eating in the middle of the river.
A mud turtle sticks its head out in the middle of the river.
The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
He shrunk his hand drum because he held it too close to the fire.
He recognized the smell of that fox who must have been nearby.
The smoke hurts the eyes in here. I think there is a hole in the chimney.
Put your ceremonial food in the dish.
I found a stone by the lake.
I'm helping out everywhere with revitalizing the Native language.
You can hear the flies buzzing inside it.
Wrap up your child warm when you tie him in the cradle board.
