The one paddling here is paddling against the wind.
It's easy for him to pull the load because he's coming along behind (someone else).
They liked the huge cornfield they saw.
He's really thankful for what he got at the give-away.
There were a whole lot of farmers at the auction we went to.
He wiped the floor up where the oil was dripping.
What I drank and ate put me to sleep.
Me and my sister were racing and she passed me.
He start driving anyway when he was told not to.
I don't know what the one who came inside scared saw outside.
That clock you threw got busted.
The window was open and that's why the rain came in.
The funeral for the deceased is tomorrow.
He started to work on what he was asked to do the other day.
Rake out the thimble you dropped under the table. Use a stick to rake it out with.
The driver was late -- that's why they sent him home.
The ones left behind were late.
They eat traditional food so that's why they're are still healthy.
He fell in because he missed when he tried to push the boat out with his pole.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
The one who went shopping is unloading there. He bought lots.
That guy pulling didn't have any sense -- that's why he strained his back.
You won't be able to hold him back. He wants to go back where he came from because something happened over there.
They took turns rowing the boat across the lake.
The pole where the flag flies is pretty tall.
He got me mad so that's why I slapped him hard.
The bloodclot killed him.
The woman I met yesterday likes to beg.
Their tracks come off the water at the rocky point.
Put the moose sausage you smoked in the snow (to cool it).
Your reputation is kind of goofy. You try to hold that seat you were elected to in the last election.
You see the one who just left here up on top of the hill.
The bill was way overdue and that's why he went after his debt.
Let's dance for the new dancer entering for the first time.
I probably won't marry that guy that asked me to marry him.
The chairman thought it was too hard and that's why he resigned.
I watched the concert from down below the stage.
I don't like pepper.
That man's been very quiet and depressed since his wife left him.
The one pulling a sled load at the front has a hard time pulling.
The aroma of the fried moose meat smells beautiful. = S/he's making a beautiful aroma frying up the moose meat.
The onion he bit into tasted real strong.
Who are those men who just came in?
I don't know where that old guy drove off to.
I don't know where she went.
Where did you get your fishing pole? | I got it at the store.
He tried out the new rod and reel he bought.
I made good use of those discarded things that I collected.
Cut out what you traced on it.
He caught up to the canoe that blew away.
He ran out of oil so that's why he stopped the engine.
I hurt my knee so that's why I'm limping.
He rubs his knee where he got hurt.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
Don't talk too loud. You'll wake grandpa who's sleeping.
What kind of bird is calling?
Please copy what was written.
The summer jacket I bought yesterday is  a nice color.
I thawed out the meat like you asked me to.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
We've got an angora cat.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
This is the wrestler that just got home. He's been wrestling for years.
They hauled stones from way off in the woods to use for the sweat lodge.
Do you want to sell your motorcycle?
He looks cute the way he dances.
Those people I went and saw in Canada have a strange dialect.
He made a stronger statement.
She is suffering from smoke inhalation having been pulled out of the house fire.
This one was her first partner.
The one who was pinned down took a long time to pull himself free.
She finally drove back home after being gone a long time.
Pay close attention to how they preach to you. You will live better (if you heed it).
What are those sitting over there?
He's secretly laughing at the one farting from laughing so hard.
There's going to be a canoe race today. We should go and watch.
He retrieved the ricing boat that drifted out.
THat's why I went there -- there were a lot of fish jumping out of the water.
There's a big ripple. I think it was a big sturgeon jumping out of the water.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
Just like what he said yesterday.
That child who did somethong wrong ran under the platform to hide.
The hotel where I'm staying is at the edge of town
He speaks well of the island he went to see.
The old lady smudged that person who was feeling ill.
The book he went and borrowed is thick.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
He is puling the beaver he shot out of the water.
What he wanted wasn't there so he got kind of mad and said the hell with it.
He went all over the neighborhood trying to find out where they moved to.
The snake I saw yesterday was long.
It's amazing the way he's working on that house.
Go get the guy across the lake that's yelling  (to be picked up).
The cord they used to tie the net was strong.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
He came in singing. Maybe the baseball players won the game.
There was a good movie we went and watched at our neighbors.
He pulled out the pine that he'd dragged here on the water.
Make your stretcher a little smaller. What you are going to stretch on it is pretty small.
I fell and hurt my elbow.
He borrowed enough money to pay for the trailer.
I just laugh at the one who wanted to go for seconds but there was nothing left.
Flick out the rope that's under the water.
Turn that slanted dish up straight before the soup spills.
He's in jail because he's so foolish.
Melt lead. Carve a hollow in a board. Pour the lead you've melted in there (to make buckshot).
He's been really bothered since he lost his friend.
That's the way I walked when I went last night.
The people who went to Chicago drove straight through.
He took great care in cutting straight what he was told to cut.
The one who was gone all night was working.
The queen I saw is beautiful.
Thank the speaker.
She was drying her shawl so she hung it out.
The travelers will land sometime after three o'clock.
Hurry up and finish your homework.
Are you going to go watch the wrestling tonight?
The representative who lost had been in the lead.
I picked up the gun that was sitting there.
What I've been asked to put together has all fallen into place.
Keep to a proper diet. Don't eat fatty things.
The dough that I kneaded rose [contrary to expectation].
The one shooting the rapids goes down in the middle.
He joined in the fight too.
I am among the carpenters.
Which way is the yelling coming from?
I rub the frozen blueberries (in the bag) to pour a few onto my plate.
I'm going to go look for the ones that missed the ride.
Drive through the big culvert.
He cried when he fell out of bed last night.
He sent for the bed they gave him.
I fell outside on the ground and got dirty.
What's that over there across the road?
How does that old boat look that you went and saw?
The person who fainted a little while ago came to.
He knew where he was when he finally noticed that low mountain.
Don't bother the fighting dogs. They might accidentally bite you.
He got lonesome for his dad so went and looked for him.
You can hear the pulp cutter way back in the bush.
That's the person she wanted to come and speak -- so that's why she asked him to come over.
The ricers live on the other side of the island.
That is what the doctor told him -- to be on a certain diet.
He marked where he went into the thicket so he wouldn't get lost.
What are those things you are talking about?
Let the singers be served first.
The buckskin is really large. I wonder just how big that buck must have been.
She quickly brought the shivering person inside to get him warmed up.
He drank too much -- that's why he was laid out.
The sweetgrass hanging in the car is nicely braided.
I guess she laughed at my letter when she read it.
