Spread it there on the rock to dry.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
She's making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
Try and make the syrup you're making good.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
They liked the huge cornfield they saw.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
I'm going to go to pow-wows all summer.
The Thunderbirds come from the west as they go by us.
There is snow on top of the car.
Give the one who's thirsty a drink.
I don't know what the one who came inside scared saw outside.
Please copy what was written.
A cat is sleeping on the bed.
From here my brother's new car looks black.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
She makes the bread the same way I do it.
It cost him a lot to fix his boat.
He really didn't come.
Peel that stick.
The leaves fall off the trees that have them towards late fall.
When that man was walking he fell down.
They sent my son overseas to go fight.
All evening he's holding a light for the guy who's working on his car.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
He refused to cut wood for his sister.
I just swept up any old way.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
That dog's hair stood up as he barked at the bear.
You should brush the snow off your coat.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
She really loves her grandma.
He's putting medicine on the knee he skinned.
The baseball team overwhelmed the challengers who came to play with them.
He is operating the sawmill.
Go easy on your bike.
He hit his (golf)ball right out on a field of snow
That bottle is half full with wine.
He carefully shaped the clay.
I usually put my shoes under the bed.
My grandchild Dana grew two inches this winter.
The board that I nailed on was weak.
I will not vote for that crazy-thinking person who is running for treasurer.
They came and hired my partner to go babysit.
He's working with that man.
He shredded the document.
The one who went to set nets set them sideways.
It was a bad day yesterday and that's why I didn't go out in the woods.
It was the new moon of January the other night.