The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
What's it for?
What is he mouthing off about now?
What's that name of that lady sitting over there.
How high does it hang?
What do people think of h/? How is s/he regarded?
He kissed his grandmother he was so happy to see her.
How long is the boat?
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
Check the wind first before you go across (by boat).
Let's quickly paddle across since the wind has died down.
He's doing that just to badger me.
I don't know what the one who came inside scared saw outside.
I put pepper on my food and it tasted hot.
What size is it? How Big is it?
You won't be able to hold him back. He wants to go back where he came from because something happened over there.
How is the wind?
How long are your shoelaces?
The hide hung there too long -- that's the reason why it rotted.
The pole where the flag flies is pretty tall.
Their tracks come off the water at the rocky point.
What is the value of your word? = Are you lying?
You see the one who just left here up on top of the hill.
The bill was way overdue and that's why he went after his debt.
How is it's (animate) aroma?
Let's dance for the new dancer entering for the first time.
He picked out the ripe blueberries.
I don't like pepper.
The one pulling a sled load at the front has a hard time pulling.
What is her address?
I don't know where she went.
My daughter's son was crying so she laid down with him.
Flick out the rope that's under the water.
Turn that slanted dish up straight before the soup spills.
He gets chilled easily as he ages.
How loud is he?
How old is your daughter?
How is the movie?
The one shooting the rapids goes down in the middle.
How high does it (animate) hang?
What is the ground like?
I rub the frozen blueberries (in the bag) to pour a few onto my plate.
Drive through the big culvert.
How does s/he stand?
Don't say anything to him. That's just his nature that he can't get anything right that he's told.
Really listen to and analyze what he's saying.
I ordered a loaf of bread through someone this afternoon.
How heavy is the boat?
How is it (a liquid)?
What does a beaver eat?
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Remember your sister-in-law is going to have a birthday.
Work with that man working over there.
How long is the lake?
When that man was walking he fell down.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
He didn't feel good; that's why he went for treatment.
He didn't know his road --  that's why he got lost.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
Hear h/ out. / Try to understand what h/ is saying.
How far along in the winter is it?
How long are his arms?
His fishing pole fell in because it slipped out of his hands.
I dug worms after it rained.
The canoe that blew ashore came from the point
Cold winds blow from the north.
He jumped out of the rice boat too soon and that's why it tipped over.
The one pushing the logs down the rapids fell off.
The sleeper is whimpering and sobbing. I think he's having a bad dream.
It was a strong statement that was written by the governor.
He got a real intense pain when he fell yesterday.
She's taking her net down to the lake to set it.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
There are two dogs in the team the one that goes shopping drives.
How far along is he with the work on the house? Is he putting the roof on it yet?
What's it like? (of cloth or paper)
How does it smell?
What's it called in English?
At seven o'clock that old man had his breakfast.
You can hear him along the shore chopping and shaping paddles.
How is s/he dressed?
He didn't sleep much last night so that's why he couldn't go on with what he was doing.
He stands at the end of the dock when he's fishing.
How strong is the wind?
While he was hoeing his garden he remembered he'd put some meat on to boil.
How full is your water pail?
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
Don't talk too loud. You'll wake grandpa who's sleeping.
What kind of bird is calling?
Please copy what was written.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
Where is she from?
Do you want to sell your motorcycle?
He looks cute the way he dances.
The tree fell on my brother and hurt him.
He made a stronger statement.
How deep is the canoe?
Follow what's printed on the paper.
He secretly wooed his girlfriend during the ceremony.
How fast is he driving?
What's it like (of a hide)?
It got so dark because the clouds covered the moon.
He found a spot where he's going to pick berries tomorrow.
He drank too much -- that's why he was laid out.
What is her address?
How long are h/ arms?
The sweetgrass hanging in the car is nicely braided.
She hit the bull's eye when target shooting.
She made a trail to where she's going to cut the wood tomorrow.
How long are h/ legs?
Please take down that deer hide that's hanging there.
What's h/ hair like?
He overslept when he got his new job.
What's it like outside?
He was sleepy so he lay down.
I like the black pair of shoes.
How is it (animate) used?
An eagle looks smaller and smaller as it soars high.
What color is it (animate)?
What phase is the moon in?
How far along is the rice-picking moon?
He set the book that was blocking the way further back.
How hot is it?
He had a big laugh after he told the story.
Whose horse is this buckskin?
You should try to leave one beaver in every beaver house so more will come.
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
The crying child is heard from the other room.
He was thinking too fast. That's the reason he forget why he came here.
He went around and pulled down the signs he posted this morning.
Where is his home? / Where does he live?
I saw a skinny dipper from far away.
It (a road or trail) goes over there.
Watch and analyze what she's doing.
How long is it (something of finished wood)?
There's too many ticks this summer.
What's h/ illness?
How does it taste?
What time is it (clock time)?
How much flour is there?
The baby is crying because s/he is hungry.
Where is that shot coming from? | It's coming from over the portage.
Fresh young rice is green in color.
He overshot where he was going so he ran into the water.
Pick up a brown leaf.
What color it it?
How is its aroma?
That old dog chewed up the blanket that was hanging out there.
He's barely alive having been in a serious accident.
How far does it shine?
Cut out the pattern for how big you want your moccasins to be.
He was standing too close --  that's why his pants caught on fire.
Don't laugh at how it looks.
