He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
The car screeches going by on the road.
I have money in my wallet
I want to fix my little car.
I want to work in the sawmill this winter.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
I only talked with him for a little while before he got on the bus.
He dropped his bustle off his back.
The bustle was ripped apart in the wind.
Don't take out all the money if you go to the bank. Leave me some!
She brought a new car.
The cars looked the same.
Bend the sticks of the frame before making the waaginogaan.
Sharpen your pencil.
Fill up my car halfway.
Can you sew up those pants?
My pants are big.
She's patching my pants.
You should try to find the car of his that he lost. The police are trying to find it too.
Let's walk a little faster. We'll miss the train.
We pushed the car when it couldn't start.
She lent him money even though she didn't want to.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
They each have only a little money.
The tree fell on my brother and hurt him.
Follow what's printed on the paper.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
The burning) kinick-kinick smells good.
He worked on his car. Now it runs good.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
That ol' dog chased that cat up a tree.
He broke the pencil.
Rake out the thimble you dropped under the table. Use a stick to rake it out with.
Use scissors to cut out birch bark.
He zipped up his bag before he boarded the train.
My coworker has a short car.
He hid his money under a rock.
Scissors get dull if you cut metal or paper.
The leaves are turning colors.
All of sudden my knee swelled up.
That tree is being blown westward.
He borrowed enough money to pay for the trailer.
I put my bundle away in the drawer.
The birch bark comes off the trees easily at the beginning of summer.
Tomorrow I'm going to go borrow some money to buy a car.
Your car still looks new.
Can you tap that tree over there?
There are two birds sitting in a tree.
Toot your horn!
He broke his foot when he miss his grip and fell off the train.
The deer smells rotten because it was hanging up in the tree too long.
What a tragic car accident!
He set the book that was blocking the way further back.
Load those boxes into the car.
There's a tree at the end of the road.
My mother used wood taps when she tapped trees.
Please cook the cabbage.
A tree is being tapped.
You can use a hacksaw to saw your padlock in half if you lose your key to it.
She's asking me to write for her and fill out the application for the job she's after.
That radiator looks good.
That log is drifting along on top of the water.
Please give me some money.
My son sent me some money.
Pick up a brown leaf.
The towel is dirty.
Buying a new vehicle made me broke.
I gave her a ride here in my car.
My car got cooled off. It won't start.
I lent him my car and he went and wrecked it.
