The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
The car screeches going by on the road.
About four-thirty in the morning it starts to get light.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
It's pretty still outside. There's no wind blowing.
The rice must be ripe now.
We'll pull out our net as early as dawn.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
You should hang it this way so it will be visible.
I cooked three times today.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
He's indicating that the wind is from the north.
I dug worms after it rained.
The canoe that blew ashore came from the point
Cold winds blow from the north.
I hunted for night crawlers late at night when there was dew.
I think they're going to buy us lunch tomorrow.
I want to work in the sawmill this winter.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
We went to the dance Sunday and that's where we camped.
He pretended to sleep during the thunder.
The leaves fall off the trees that have them towards late fall.
Put a board under your pot so your tablecloth doesn't get burned.
I'm going to rest this summer.
Pull your dock out of the water before it freezes up.
It will be pretty dry this summer.
We pushed the car when it couldn't start.
Set your tea off the fire before it gets strong.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
Spread it there on the rock to dry.
It's going to be warm tomorrow.
Please copy what was written.
He tells him not to go out on the ice when it's dangerous.
It's not very windy.
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
There's going to be a canoe race today. We should go and watch.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
Don't rice yet until the flowers fall.
I was going to call you again. My phone isn't working. I think it's disconnected.
The sun is high at noon.
Unwrap the moose meat so it will thaw out.
Everyone wishes for a nice day tomorrow so we can enjoy picking rice.
Fill the stove so the fire will go all night.
I'm helping out everywhere with revitalizing the Native language.
They laughed at my cousin when his old lady over-powered him.
Prime your saw so it will start.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
I want to set up the tent before the rain gets here.
He refused to cut wood for his sister.
Don't forget to take your moccasins you made. The office will be closed tomorrow.
All of a sudden the Fourth of July is here.
They laughed at my cousnin when his old lady over-powered him.
The funeral for the deceased is tomorrow.
My scissors are dull.
My son ate four times.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
They finally started moving around and waking up around ten o'clock this morning.
The pole where the flag flies is pretty tall.
You should take your laundry down before the rain gets here.
Next spring when there is foliage that's when the work crew will start clearing and brushing.
The bloodclot killed him.
This Saturday I got up early.
The berries will be ripe towards the last part of the summer.
I don't like pepper.
It stopped raining at noon.
It's starting to rain now.
Flick out the rope that's under the water.
Turn that slanted dish up straight before the soup spills.
Stir up your soup before it burns to the pan.
I hired someone to take my boat over there to get it worked on.
I hope it's a nice day tomorrow. We could go partridge hunting.
I'll see you when it's New Year's.
There's a north wind. The wind is bring the cold this way.
The travelers will land sometime after three o'clock.
Are you going to go watch the wrestling tonight?
The birch bark comes off the trees easily at the beginning of summer.
The lake froze over when it got cold.
Keep to a proper diet. Don't eat fatty things.
Drive through the big culvert.
Maybe we'll go there tomorrow.
Tomorrow I will check the traps. I will take some baits along.
Did you hear the big windstorm last night?
Tomorrow I'm going to go borrow some money to buy a car.
The rabbits run on top of the snow when there is a crust on it.
Just two times.
He found a spot where he's going to pick berries tomorrow.
The sweetgrass hanging in the car is nicely braided.
It's three days now the wind has been steady -- it's not even stopped at all.
Knock the snow off the roof of your house before it caves in.
The hail sounds good hitting on top of the roof.
It's not going to be easy.
Blueberries turn brownish in the late fall.
I'm going to cut wood this fall.
It was so hot I almost died of thirst.
I'll be at your (pl.) place towards daylight
It's a very nice night. The moonlight is bright.
We'll play the dish game after noon.
It doesn't look like it will work out.
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
He answers his grandma's requests right away.
Wait until tomorrow  and I'll come and get you then.
I am coming to get you at 10 o'clock.
He drove his woman away -- that's why she left him.
They told us not to go out on the lake because it was too stormy.
I'm not going anywhere today.
I'll be back around four o'clock.
Tomorrow I'm going to wake up early at daybreak.
File the nail in half if it is too long.
Look for some firewood before dark or else we will be cold tonight.
I was informed ahead of time that there was a big storm coming our way yesterday.
Only some of them went swimming in the evening.
He relies on his mother to take care of him.
There's too many ticks this summer.
Turn on the cold water.
I straightened up my (tilted) bowl up before the soup spilled out.
Fresh young rice is green in color.
The sign that was glued on there came off.
Get the water out of your canoe before tonight. Maybe (the lake) will freeze up.
Stick your axe upright before it gets covered by snow.
Pick up a brown leaf.
I hope the Native language will carry on.
Ill be home all morning tomorrow.
That old dog chewed up the blanket that was hanging out there.
In the evening I'll turn all of them (hides) fur side out so they will dry properly.
I want to patch my damaged blanket.
Raindrops are falling. I think it's going to start raining.
They're going to have a big celebration again during the Fourth of July.
How many times?
She ran away from her husband because he wanted to fight her.
