The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
He's going to remove the log that was lying across the road.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
He's looking for the deer he wounded.
It wiggles up and down as it moves around.
Don't run with your gun.
That old cat has got a mouse in her mouth.
The car screeches going by on the road.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
Pull the window open.
About four-thirty in the morning it starts to get light.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
Mix the oil into the gas.
He is operating the sawmill.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
Always keep your gas can full.
The torchers were gone all night.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
She tried waving his arms at the driver to stop him.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
You are on the list too.
There's a lot of animals in the woods. You too should go hunting.
He couldn't see him when he wanted him to go after water.
It's pretty still outside. There's no wind blowing.
He has whiskers. {Literally: He has a mouse sticking out of his mouth.]
I just swept up any old way.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
There's somebody shooting on the other side of the rapids.
Put the tobacco in the pipe.
She doesn't let her children be out at night.
He chased that animal into a corner.
The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
Last night two men capsized (their motor boat). One nearly drowned.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
The rice must be ripe now.
Don't bother him. He's busy working on a car. You'll distract him.
He teaches his grandchild all the time.
I'm going to eat bannock.
He really like that song and that's why he taped it.
I'm passing on this story. It's not my own.
Let's go take the net out.
We'll pull out our net as early as dawn.
They spotted a bear in the light when they cast a light in that direction.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
He really didn't come.
Are these your mitts?
The old bachelor has a dirty house. He doesn't know how to keep it clean.
Remember your sister-in-law is going to have a birthday.
Work with that man working over there.
He's working with that man.
I met my grandfather halfway down the lake.
Can you come later? I'm going to cut some wood first.
He spun the top.
How long is the lake?
His tooth is bothering him.
Ring the bell.
Come here, my grandmother said to me.
There's a leak in the middle of the tent.
It was the new moon of January the other night.
I heard that he come out of the hospital two nights ago.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
They're telling us it's our turn to talk.
A wood tick bit him in the middle of the chest.
When that man was walking he fell down.
He tracked his father toward the west.
Take him in that direction.
You should hang it this way so it will be visible.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
Lock the gate on your driveway you just came out of.
She dunked her cookie to soften it.
He didn't know what to think when they came and told him his grandmother was very ill.
I was sick and it just hurt.
Dry your socks near the stove.
There's a bed next to the wall.
Set your trap for a beaver on its trail.
He came out carrying his little son on his back in a cradle board.
He didn't feel good; that's why he went for treatment.
I have money in my wallet
He didn't know his road --  that's why he got lost.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
A cat is sleeping on the bed.
Was it still daylight when he got ready for bed?
I saw a teenagers smoking in the alley.
That man didn't hear me. I think he's deaf.
Hear h/ out. / Try to understand what h/ is saying.
Don't bother your grandfather. He's busy making kinnickinick
I cooked three times today.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
How far along in the winter is it?
He's indicating that the wind is from the north.
Don't put your it here on on the top of the roof. Your cup might get blown down.
I'm eating some candies.
How long are his arms?
Go tell him to hurry up.
