I prepared beforehand to go snowshoeing tomorrow.
This morning I came across the bridge. This afternoon I'm going back across the bridge.
Always keep your gas can full.
The torchers were gone all night.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
I just swept up any old way.
Last night two men capsized (their motor boat). One nearly drowned.
The rice must be ripe now.
Don't bother him. He's busy working on a car. You'll distract him.
He teaches his grandchild all the time.
We'll pull out our net as early as dawn.
He really didn't come.
Can you come later? I'm going to cut some wood first.
It was the new moon of January the other night.
I heard that he come out of the hospital two nights ago.
When that man was walking he fell down.
I wonder who was making that noise outside last night.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
Was it still daylight when he got ready for bed?
That man didn't hear me. I think he's deaf.
Hear h/ out. / Try to understand what h/ is saying.
Don't bother your grandfather. He's busy making kinnickinick
I cooked three times today.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
Thaw it first to make apple juice (from frozen concentrate).
The meat is frozen solid. I'll put it in the water first to thaw it before I cook it.
She's  making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
I hunted for night crawlers late at night when there was dew.
I think they're going to buy us lunch tomorrow.
He jumped out of the rice boat too soon and that's why it tipped over.
The sleeper is whimpering and sobbing. I think he's having a bad dream.
He's rushing downstairs to go answer his ringing phone.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
Take it easy. The road is very slippery.
He got a real intense pain when he fell yesterday.
It was a bad day yesterday and that's why I didn't go out in the woods.
Yesterday I smoked a lot of meat. Today I'll make pemmican.
She would have been almost run over if it hadn't been for me pushing her out of the way.
He carefully shaped the clay.
I only talked with him for a little while before he got on the bus.
How far along is he with the work on the house? Is he putting the roof on it yet?
He's going to pound on his drum and sing the day after tomorrow.
She (or he) is approaching the status of an elder now.
Just go ahead. We'll catch up to you anyway.
Load your gun. | I loaded it already.
He is unable to pull the rope. Maybe it's frozen to the ground.
The cars looked the same.
He's going to move further away tomorrow.
Sure I'll go with you.
Bend the sticks of the frame before making the waaginogaan.
It's time for our breakfast.
He didn't sleep much last night so that's why he couldn't go on with what he was doing.
It was hot last night night. I lay there without covers all night.
It will be pretty dry this summer.
Don't knead your dough too long. It will harden up.
They all work together. Ants are certainly very strong.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
She lent him money even though she didn't want to.
Let's work together revitalizing our language.
While he was hoeing his garden he remembered he'd put some meat on to boil.
Is she honest enough to be trusted?
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
I've been going around picking berries all summer.
I parched the raw rice this morning.
My son was busy working on his car and that's why he got here late this morning.
Every day I take my medicine (pills).
Don't talk too loud. You'll wake grandpa who's sleeping.
She played a trick on him.
The old man is telling funny stories.
Lace and tie your shows right
Let's go stay under the bridge. [in a canoe]
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
He secretly wooed his girlfriend during the ceremony.
He cut up the meat fast. He's really got a sharp knife.
There's going to be a canoe race today. We should go and watch.
Don't ever listen to him if he asks you to go along.
Just make it any old way.
I do it any old way.
Don't rice yet until the flowers fall.
The phone rang all morning long (this morning).
I was going to call you again. My phone isn't working. I think it's disconnected.
She’s not with her husband any more.
He worked on his car. Now it runs good.
Be sure to always take your gun permit long when you go hunting.
I'm finally finishing my quilt.
The smoke hurts the eyes in here. I think there is a hole in the chimney.
Dogs barked all night.
Fill the stove so the fire will go all night.
She cooled off her jug of milk in the water overnight.
I'm going to go to pow-wows all summer.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
They are in session. {of council members]
He submitted his story even though they told him not to.
Check the wind first before you go across (by boat).
Let's quickly paddle across since the wind has died down.
He is here (when he was expected to be elsewhere).
He's doing that just to badger me.
