The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
I had to shoot the moose I brought home this morning three times.
She  made the doll she made for her little daughter small.
Drag the beaver you trapped home.
You should try to find the car of his that he lost. The police are trying to find it too.
She pulled that hide out of the water after she got it soft.
He rubs his knee where he got hurt.
I thawed out the meat like you asked me to.
She is suffering from smoke inhalation having been pulled out of the house fire.
This one was her first partner.
Just like what he said yesterday.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
He is puling the beaver he shot out of the water.
He pulled out the pine that he'd dragged here on the water.
The funeral for the deceased is tomorrow.
Rake out the thimble you dropped under the table. Use a stick to rake it out with.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
The one who went shopping is unloading there. He bought lots.
Put the moose sausage you smoked in the snow (to cool it).
I probably won't marry that guy that asked me to marry him.
Cut out what you traced on it.
Melt lead. Carve a hollow in a board. Pour the lead you've melted in there (to make buckshot).
I'm going to go look for the ones that missed the ride.
He cried when he fell out of bed last night.
I guess she laughed at my letter when she read it.
He broke his foot when he miss his grip and fell off the train.
What a tragic car accident!
He threw the sausage on the snow (to cool) after he roasted it.
Draw a picture of how it looks where you came from.
Is the moose you shot still breathing?
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
I wonder if he understood what I wrote him about.
I'm going to freeze the meat I got.
He got burnt because he couldn't get out because of the smoke.
I don't fit the shoes I bought because they're too small.
Return the sugar they lent you.
This morning I went to see the office worker. She is going to help me with my request.
They found the young woman that was lost. She's doing okay.
