I didn't like the taste of the beets they fed me.
Could you give me half of the pemmican?
Please find your grandfather's glasses.
I think they're going to buy us lunch tomorrow.
I'll find a job for you.
You should try to find the car of his that he lost. The police are trying to find it too.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
She lent him money even though she didn't want to.
They are giving away the dressers that they brought.
I only fed each of the the kids a little bit of oatmeal. I don't think they like it.
They each got a little rice last fall.
They each got feed only a little when they went to eat at the food shelter.
They gave me tobacco when they invited me to participate.
He found the car the was stolen from him.
They gave me some tea. It really tasted good.
They came and showed me that painting. It's no good. I didn't like it.
You'd better feed him. This person is turning kind of pale on us.
Put the bird feed on top of the snow. (= Feed the small birds on top of the snow.)
My daughter brought me their leftovers to eat.
You can feed your dog your leftovers.
He picked up his dish for him.
He stole my boat.
I stole his car from him.
Take care of the old lady's ceremonial pouch.
He sent for the bed they gave him.
The fair is fun.
I've got to go cut a hole in the ice before I lead my horses down to the lake to go water them.
I guess she laughed at my letter when she read it.
I tried to borrow that big miser's boat.
He came in mad because he didn't get his check.
I sent my son to give some bread to his sister.
Thanks for giving me a little bit of food. [joking insult]
I'm giving this to you to use alone.
Chip the cookie in half so you can give me some.
I did explain it carefully to her (but she might not get it).
She sent the jacket to him that he'd asked her for.
Hand him a plate so he can dish up his own meal.
I wonder if he understood what I wrote him about.
I wonder if you could lend me ten bucks?
The teacher makes a lot of money.
He's wishing you'd feed him.
I asked my mate to go along with me to the fair.
Please give me some money.
I'm going to freeze the meat I got.
He took home the bed they gave him.
I lent him my car and he went and wrecked it.
Return the sugar they lent you.
Please give me one.
