The snowmobiler's dog is running behind him.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
Don't run with your gun.
Pull the window open.
Mix the oil into the gas.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
Always keep your gas can full.
I've lost the flashlight I wanted to use torching.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
He really like that song and that's why he taped it.
I'm passing on this story. It's not my own.
I'm going to soak my frying pan so what was boiled in it (oatmeal) will soften up.
He spun the top.
Ring the bell.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
You should hang it this way so it will be visible.
Lock the gate on your driveway you just came out of.
She dunked her cookie to soften it.
Dry your socks near the stove.
He didn't know his road --  that's why he got lost.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
Last fall we cut fire wood for us to use in the winter.
Don't put your it here on on the top of the roof. Your cup might get blown down.
I'm eating some candies.
Thaw it first to make apple juice (from frozen concentrate).
The meat is frozen solid. I'll put it in the water first to thaw it before I cook it.
His fishing pole fell in because it slipped out of his hands.
She's  making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
Put your blueberries in the shade before they burst open from the sun.
He hit his (golf)ball right out on a field of snow
That table is dirty. Can you clean it?
It cost him a lot to fix his boat.
I want to fix my little car.
Steam your veggies to eat them.
He's rushing downstairs to go answer his ringing phone.
Carry it upstairs.
I'm going to take my car over there to get the oil changed.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
Take it easy. The road is very slippery.
Use balsams for your bedding when you make your wigwam.
It was a bad day yesterday and that's why I didn't go out in the woods.
Yesterday I smoked a lot of meat. Today I'll make pemmican.
He pushed the little boy out of the way before he got hit.
He carefully shaped the clay.
Throw ashore your cut firewood that's in the boat.
My daughter wears glasses when she drives. She doesn't see very well.
I want to wear my jacket but he's got it on.
Put on your rubber boots. The grass outside is wet.
How far along is he with the work on the house? Is he putting the roof on it yet?
She (or he) is approaching the status of an elder now.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
Load your gun. | I loaded it already.
I add salt when I eat.
He is unable to pull the rope. Maybe it's frozen to the ground.
Bend the sticks of the frame before making the waaginogaan.
Carry your canoe on top of your car.
Put it in your pocket.
He spread out his pants on top of a rock to dry them.
Someone was occupying the bathroom. I waited for h/ to finish.
Wiggle your fingers.
Kick your shoes under the bed.
Can you sew up those pants?
She's patching my pants.
Pull your dock out of the water before it freezes up.
He's putting medicine on the knee he skinned.
She pulled that hide out of the water after she got it soft.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
We pushed the car when it couldn't start.
Let's work together revitalizing our language.
I hang the kettle close to the fire when I make soup.
Make your moccasins before the powwow season starts.
We helped translate the words too.
While he was hoeing his garden he remembered he'd put some meat on to boil.
Set your tea off the fire before it gets strong.
Write this in Ojibwe.
Set up your trap in the middle of the overflow.
Watch it from here.
Please turn on the air conditioner because it is hot here inside before grandma gets dizzy from the heat.
Work the rice with your feet to dehusk it.
He found signs that his dog must have been eating there. There were marks.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
Use a dish towel when you're going to dry your dishes.
I parched the raw rice this morning.
Spread it there on the rock to dry.
Paddle this way.
Look for the Big Dipper.
He looked underneath for his trousers.
Every day I take my medicine (pills).
I usually put my shoes under the bed.
Please copy what was written.
He returned it even though he had accepted it.
She's wearing rings on both hands.
Fill it this high.
Tie down your sled wrapper.
Lace and tie your shows right
He made a stronger statement.
