The trail of the snake shows it must have passed by here.
Go slow when you don't know the lake. You might hit a reef.
The rice picker took a whole bag of rice out of her canoe.
Last night two men capsized (their motor boat). One nearly drowned.
He spun the top.
There's a leak in the middle of the tent.
Is it our turn to go knock rice?
She dunked her cookie to soften it.
His fishing pole fell in because it slipped out of his hands.
It cost him a lot to fix his boat.
We picked rice right to the end of the day.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
He pushed the little boy out of the way before he got hit.
He carefully shaped the clay.
Do you put sugar in your tea?
It's almost full (of liquid).
She pulled that hide out of the water after she got it soft.
He realized that he hadn't feed his horse yet.
He ran out of oil so that's why he stopped the engine.
Work the rice with your feet to dehusk it.
The rice stalks are still wet. We'll go and pick rice when they dry up.
Paddle this way.
He returned it even though he had accepted it.
That pail leaks.
That radio is loud.
Hang your snare under the boughs.
There were a lot of blueberries this summer.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
He's washing his pets.
Don't rice yet until the flowers fall.
I was going to call you again. My phone isn't working. I think it's disconnected.
The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
He shrunk his hand drum because he held it too close to the fire.
He recognized the smell of that fox who must have been nearby.
The smoke hurts the eyes in here. I think there is a hole in the chimney.
Everyone wishes for a nice day tomorrow so we can enjoy picking rice.
He is puling the beaver he shot out of the water.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
The bottle is full.
We're the only ones here.
The blister on his foot ruptured.
He is here (when he was expected to be elsewhere).
He's not holding his bow right.
Hang your grandfather's picture on the wall.
The distribution is short.
Can you bring two chairs? They ran out.
She's going to take a run to the store first. The milk has run out.
He is gifted with the ability to comprehend all the words.
I don't like pepper.
You better make the right decision.
That's the way I walked when I went last night.
Your trap is stuck.
He got the the cough medicine from the pharmacy.
I put the milk in the refrigerator.
The birch bark comes off the trees easily at the beginning of summer.
It's ten minutes past.
Don't say anything to him. That's just his nature that he can't get anything right that he's told.
He's sitting still pondering.
The dog is under the table barking.
She dropped her cup.
He's sitting there thinking and wishing it would clear up.
He kneaded and shaped the biscuits before he put them in the oven.
You put it too close to the fire.
He spilled it out when he tipped it on its side.
He lowered the pail down into the well.
She's getting better and better every day.
The sun comes up from the east every day.
He's wondering where his son is. He just now missed him.
There's a wood tick in the middle of his back.
She's getting better.
It doesn't look like it will work out.
The net board is split. It's no good any more.
Slap him on the head if he doesn't listen.
The water was halfway up his leg as he waded across.
The sled won't go. I think it's too iced up.
His breathing is good. I think he's getting better.
We lived out on the prairies for eight years.
Fresh young rice is green in color.
Stick your axe upright before it gets covered by snow.
I hope the Native language will carry on.
A fan is squeaking.
Take good care of that token or you might lose it.
They found the young woman that was lost. She's doing okay.
