Is the moose you shot still breathing?
He picked out the ripe blueberries.
He misplaced his keys. He can't find them.
Moose tastes different.
You should try to leave one beaver in every beaver house so more will come.
Don't make any noise on the canoe. You'll scare off our game.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
How long are your shoelaces?
It doesn't look like it will work out.
Put your ceremonial food in the dish.
He overslept when he got his new job.
Is it your turn to go help with the haying?
Yesterday I smoked a lot of meat. Today I'll make pemmican.
He was gifted food. He caught a rabbit last night.
He's really thankful for what he got at the give-away.
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
He answers his grandma's requests right away.
The ol' cat vanished into the brush.
Please cook the cabbage.
She dreamt of me passing my spirit name on to her.
Go put the chair in the corner.
You put it too close to the fire.
I hunt beaver all spring long.
He caught the canoe before it blew out into the lake.
Peel the bark off the red willow (osier) so it will be white.
He had a big laugh after he told the story.
He's sitting there thinking and wishing it would clear up.
I hate to think of going over to watch that house and staying for a week as they asked me to.
I cut firewood all fall.
It will be extremely sweet if you put a lot of sugar on it.
The moose is eating in the middle of the river.
A beaver eats by the river.
A tree is being tapped.
Wait until tomorrow  and I'll come and get you then.
I am coming to get you at 10 o'clock.
The bottle is full.
I think my grandfather won't be able (to walk) soon. The doctor told him he has arthritis.
Where did you get your fishing pole? | I got it at the store.
He's washing the windows.
Taste that sturgeon.
He drove his woman away -- that's why she left him.
That radio is loud.
That jacket I hung up here blew away.
The crying child is heard from the other room.
The boy told the dogs to fight.
Don't bother the fighting dogs. They might accidentally bite you.
You can see an eagle sitting across the river.
You can make out rice across the river.
It's going to be herd for the dependents because they're cutting off some of their benefits.
How far along is the rice-picking moon?
Ants sleep under rocks.
They all work together. Ants are certainly very strong.
A trapper feeds himself well.
Wrap up your child warm when you tie him in the cradle board.
The car is in the middle of the road where it must have broken down.
Let's quickly paddle across since the wind has died down.
The net board is split. It's no good any more.
He's taking the sheep across the road.
He was thinking too fast. That's the reason he forget why he came here.
He followed its trail into the den. He's going to smoke it out.
It is forbidden to mistreat dogs.
Zip up your coat.
The bear cubs I saw were tiny.
Put it here!
She hit the bull's eye when target shooting.
Spread out your rice so it can get dry.
He went around and pulled down the signs he posted this morning.
Untie the disabled one's shoes for her.
They told us not to go out on the lake because it was too stormy.
Hide your keys from him. He doesn't have his driver's license yet.
You can use a hacksaw to saw your padlock in half if you lose your key to it.
You have been hired to go name the new bridge.
She's asking me to write for her and fill out the application for the job she's after.
He tells him not to go out on the ice when it's dangerous.
I've been cutting pulp in the bush all winter long.
They hauled stones from way off in the woods to use for the sweat lodge.
He's putting his marbles together.
Where is his home? / Where does he live?
Don't shoot a cow moose in the rutting season.
She cut the apple into smaller pieces before she ate it.
It's their turn to go fetch the water.
Let the singers be served first.
Take him in that direction.
Kick your shoes under the bed.
My father really liked the taste of the broken rice.
I'm not going anywhere today.
I'll be back around four o'clock.
Don't leave the door open too long. The mosquitos will get in.
I chased my dog who had my hat in his mouth.
Someone is calling for you. (as you hand the phone to someone)
Keep to a proper diet. Don't eat fatty things.
I ran out of toilet paper. I went and bought some when I went shopping.
Add some green logs in here (to the other wood).
Hand him a plate so he can dish up his own meal.
When that man was walking he fell down.
The tree fell on my brother and hurt him.
It will be pretty dry this summer.
What's that name of that lady sitting over there.
I put the milk in the refrigerator.
Put your leftovers in the refrigerator so they don't spoil.
Tomorrow I'm going to wake up early at daybreak.
Slap him on the head if he doesn't listen.
The sweetgrass hanging in the car is nicely braided.
He wakes up real early.
This Saturday I got up early.
File the nail in half if it is too long.
Look for some firewood before dark or else we will be cold tonight.
Come here.
He's putting medicine on the knee he skinned.
It's not going to be easy.
I don't like pepper.
Go swing that baby you hear crying.
I saw a skinny dipper from far away.
The water was halfway up his leg as he waded across.
We'll see it if something (an animal) crosses the water.
It (a road or trail) goes over there.
Close the door on that shed.
I was informed ahead of time that there was a big storm coming our way yesterday.
What's it like outside?
He's working on his nets. He's mending them.
That radiator looks good.
Watch and analyze what she's doing.
Only some of them went swimming in the evening.
We got stranded across the lake yesterday because the waves were too big.
Wait until tomorrow  and I'll come and get you then.
We'll work on it later.
When someone makes an offering it's usually a blanket and tobacco.
Do you have a lot of gas?
He made room in the shed to store stuff.
How long is it (something of finished wood)?
The sled won't go. I think it's too iced up.
He caught the canoe before it blew out into the lake.
Don't bother the fighting dogs. They might accidentally bite you.
Call the moose.
Let's go down the rapids on the side.
A moose is running away. He's running along the edge of the trees.
He relies on his mother to take care of him.
He's taking good care for his grandfather.
Please put the dishes in the cupboard.
Where did he get the clothes from?
It's three days now the wind has been steady -- it's not even stopped at all.
You can use a hacksaw to saw your padlock in half if you lose your key to it.
She cooled off her jug of milk in the water overnight.
He's wishing you'd feed him.
An eagle looks smaller and smaller as it soars high.
His breathing is good. I think he's getting better.
It wiggles up and down as it moves around.
A wood tick bit him in the middle of the chest.
There's too many ticks this summer.
It's ten minutes past.
What's h/ illness?
What kind of bird is calling?
The ravens make a lot of noise when they caw.
The mosquito crawled in his ear.
How does it taste?
A sudden whiff of ash dust arose when I spilled it over there
Don't leave the door open too long. The mosquitos will get in.
Put your beaver board so the sun will dry it.
His arm is in a sling.
Don't just shoot at anything that moves. Make sure you find out what it is before you fire at it.
You can hear him along the shore chopping and shaping paddles.
What time is it (clock time)?
Will you come and get me (by boat) here at the stream?
Next spring when there is foliage that's when the work crew will start clearing and brushing.
How much flour is there?
He answers his grandma’s requests right away.
I'm passing on this story. It's not my own.
The baby is crying because s/he is hungry.
The rice is in the milky stage.
Toss it in the mailbox.
Take a whiff of this!
I put honey in tea.
I put pepper on my food and it tasted hot.
I add salt when I eat.
You are on the list too.
He too asked to be put on the list.
Turn on the cold water.
I don't like the house because it's too small. I'm not going to buy it.
The ravens make a lot of noise when they caw.
Dreams are very important.
That log is drifting along on top of the water.
He saw somebody standing by the road.
Put those chairs in a circle.
We lived out on the prairies for eight years.
It's a very nice night. The moonlight is bright.
Bizhikiins acts smart.
Swallow your medicine.
Slap him on the head if he doesn't listen.
She made a trail to where she's going to cut the wood tomorrow.
I'm going to wash my feet before I soak them in the basin.
You might slip if you step on the dry leaves.
Where is that shot coming from? | It's coming from over the portage.
Let's get going. Wake him up!
Just go ahead. We'll catch up to you anyway.
They told me a little while ago that my mum was sick.
The soldiers jumped out of the plane.
Winter before last I set nets under the ice.
He borrowed enough money to pay for the trailer.
Do you want to go along too?
Are these your mitts?
Who are you?
She has a scar on her left hand.
I straightened up my (tilted) bowl up before the soup spilled out.
I asked my mate to go along with me to the fair.
He refused to cut wood for his sister.
The gunny sack I was using split open.
It was the new moon of January the other night.
The young men whistled at the girl.
The dog is under the table barking.
Pull the window open.
Tighten up your motor on your boat.
Fresh young rice is green in color.
Please give me some money.
He hid his money under a rock.
My son sent me some money.
He too asked to be put on the list.
Put a board under your pot so your tablecloth doesn't get burned.
The sign that was glued on there came off.
Rub your dog's belly. Check it for bugs.
That's the way I walked when I went last night.
They finally started moving around and waking up around ten o'clock this morning.
Get the water out of your canoe before tonight. Maybe (the lake) will freeze up.
Stick your axe upright before it gets covered by snow.
He overshot where he was going so he ran into the water.
Put the tobacco right in the middle of her palm when you honor her.
Go swing that baby you hear crying.
Pick up a brown leaf.
You don't have to tell him. He already knows what to do.
He talked about his ex-wife.
The towel is dirty.
I hope the Native language will carry on.
What color it it?
The hail sounds good hitting on top of the roof.
He's sitting there thinking and wishing it would clear up.
He looked underneath for his trousers.
I saw him with his arm around her waist.
Take the gas tanks down to the lake.
You live too far away for me to go with you. [song]
How is its aroma?
Buying a new vehicle made me broke.
Make your stretcher a little smaller. What you are going to stretch on it is pretty small.
Don't point to the reef. A strong wind will come up if you point at a reef.
He tracked his father toward the west.
He followed its trail into the den. He's going to smoke it out.
Ill be home all morning tomorrow.
It's going to be warm tomorrow.
He's going to move further away tomorrow.
A fan is squeaking.
I gave her a ride here in my car.
Throw those rocks out of the path.
Slap him on the head if he doesn't listen.
He trudged across the road through the snow.
This winter there is a lot of snow.
Where the ball that flew inside (through the window) thrown from?
That old dog chewed up the blanket that was hanging out there.
Take your time in making it.
She's  making that birch bark basket in a rough way.
Use a vacuum cleaner when you want to sweep up something. Stuff scattered on the floor is sucked up.
I'm going to wash my feet before I soak them in the basin.
My car got cooled off. It won't start.
I'm going to freeze the meat I got.
They're still going with each other even though they are divorced.
I asked my mate to go along with me to the fair.
She played a trick on him.
Toss it in the mailbox.
He's barely alive having been in a serious accident.
The chickadee landed there.
The travelers will land sometime after three o'clock.
How far does it shine?
It is forbidden to mistreat dogs.
I like the black pair of shoes.
My mother is still cooking.
I used to help my mother when she dried deer meat.
Load those boxes into the car.
Put that old box under the table.
It was hot last night night. I lay there without covers all night.
You don't have to help me. I can lift it to move it over.
I don't know what the one who came inside scared saw outside.
Wiggle your fingers.
You'll start to lose hair as you get older.
She offered her child for a naming ceremony.
What's that name of that lady sitting over there.
My mother is sitting by the car. I think she's awaiting for somebody.
It stopped raining at noon.
Hang your grandfather's picture on the wall.
That old man is rowing around on a calm day.
I laughed at myself when I noticed that my socks didn't match.
Put your knife in the case before you cut your hand on it.
I think it's going to be a nice day today.
I hope it's a nice day tomorrow. We could go partridge hunting.
The water was halfway up his leg as he waded across.
He quit working before they finished it.
He's paring an apple.
He returned it even though he had accepted it.
Please cook the rabbit.
She is shaping the bannock to cook.
Always keep your gas can full.
My stew boiled dry. I forgot to fill it back up (with some water).
In the evening I'll turn all of them (hides) fur side out so they will dry properly.
Put your snowshoes under the sled.
